	Why is the disease called COVID-19?	On February 11, 2020 the World Health Organization announced an official name for the disease that is causing the 2019 novel coronavirus outbreak, first identified in Wuhan China.  The new name of this disease is coronavirus disease 2019, abbreviated as COVID-19.  In COVID-19, 'CO' stands for 'corona,' 'VI' for 'virus,' and 'D' for disease.  Formerly, this disease was referred to as "2019 novel coronavirus" or "2019-nCoV."	There are many types of human coronaviruses including some that commonly cause mild upper-respiratory tract illnesses.  COVID-19 is a new disease, caused be a novel )coronavirus that has not previously been seen in humans.  The name of this disease was selected following the World Health Organization )best practice for naming of new human infectious diseases.		Is there a list of essential industries and employees?	Yes.  The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency )has a list of essential industries available online.	Those industries include:	Healthcare/Public Health )Law Enforcement, Public Safety and First Responders )Food and Agriculture )Energy )Water and Waste water )Transportation and Logistics )Public Works and Infrastructure )Communications and Information Technology )Community and Local Government )Critical Manufacturing )Hazardous Materials )Financial Services )Chemical )Defense Industrial )Commercial Facilities )Residential/Shelter Facilities )Hygiene Products and Services 	)While this guidance is not a federal mandate, and final decisions remain at the state and local levels, we firmly believe it can serve as a baseline for a common national approach in prioritizing essential services and workers.		What are essential employees and industries?	The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency )executes the Secretary of Homeland Security's responsibilities as assigned under the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide strategic guidance, promote a national unity of effort, and coordinate the overall federal effort to ensure the security and resilience of the Nation's critical infrastructure.	The list determining essential industries was developed in coordination with federal agencies and the critical infrastructure community as a guide to help state and local governments make decisions around reasonable accommodations for essential workers.	The list is meant to be broad enough to reflect the range of personnel that play a role in infrastructure resilience --including manufacturing, logistics, and others that support the global supply chain.	While this guidance is not a federal mandate, and final decisions remain at the state and local levels, we firmly believe it can serve as a baseline for a common national approach in prioritizing essential services and workers.		How can people help stop stigma related to COVID-19?	People can fight stigma and help, not hurt, others by providing social support.  Counter stigma by learning and sharing facts.  Communicating the facts that viruses do not target specific racial or ethnic groups and how COVID-19 actually spreads can help stop stigma.		What is a novel coronavirus?	A novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously identified.  The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 ),is not the same as the coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common cold.	A diagnosis with coronavirus 229E, NL63, OC43, or HKU1 is not the same as a COVID-19 diagnosis.  Patients with COVID-19 will be evaluated and cared for differently than patients with common coronavirus diagnosis.		Why might someone blame or avoid individuals and groups )because of COVID-19?	People in the U.S may be worried or anxious about friends and relatives who are living in or visiting areas where COVID-19 is spreading.  Some people are worried about the disease.  Fear and anxiety can lead to social stigma, for example, towards Chinese or other Asian Americans or people who were in quarantine.	Stigma is discrimination against an identifiable group of people, a place, or a nation.  Stigma is associated with a lack of knowledge about how COVID-19 spreads, a need to blame someone, fears about disease and death, and gossip that spreads rumors and myths.	Stigma hurts everyone by creating more fear or anger towards ordinary people instead of the disease that is causing the problem.