	Who is eligible for the economic impact payment?	Tax filers with adjusted gross income up to $75,000 for individuals and up to $150,000 for married couples filing joint returns will receive the full payment.  For filers with income above those amounts, the payment amount is reduced by $5 for each $100 above the $75,000/ $150,000 thresholds.  Single filers with income exceeding $99,000 and $198,000 for joint filers with no children are not eligible.	Eligible taxpayers who filed tax returns for either 2019 or 2018 will automatically receive an economic impact payment of up to $1,200 for individuals or $2,400 for married couples.  Parents also receive $500 for each qualifying child.		Is the government delaying Tax Day?	The Treasury Department and the IRS has delayed Tax Day from April 15 to July 15.  This means you will not be required to file your federal income tax until July 15, 2020.  You are not required to fill out any paperwork or notify the government to take advantage of this extra time.  This delay only applies to federal income tax, not state taxes or other federal taxes.  For more information, please view the official IRS guidance.		How can I file the tax return needed to receive my economic impact payment?	will soon provide information instructing people in these groups on how to file a 2019 tax return with simple, but necessary, information including their filing status, number of dependents and direct deposit bank account information.		How will the IRS know where to send my payment?	The vast majority of people do not need to take any action.  The IRS will calculate and automatically send the economic impact payment to those eligible.	For people who have already filed their 2019 tax returns, the IRS will use this information to calculate the payment amount.  For those who have not yet filed their return for 2019, the IRS will use information from their 2018 tax filing to calculate the payment.  The economic impact payment will be deposited directly into the same banking account reflected on the return filed.		I am not typically required to file a tax return.  Can I still receive my payment?	Yes.  People who typically do not file a tax return will need to file a simple tax return to receive an economic impact payment.  Low-income taxpayers, senior citizens, Social Security recipients, some veterans and individuals with disabilities who are otherwise not required to file a tax return will not owe tax.		I have not filed my tax return for 2018 or 2019.  Can I still receive an economic impact payment?	Yes.  The IRS urges anyone with a tax filing obligation who has not yet filed a tax return for 2018 or 2019 to file as soon as they can to receive an economic impact payment.  Taxpayers should include direct deposit banking information on the return.		I need to file a tax return.  How long are the economic impact payments available?	For those concerned about visiting a tax professional or local community organization in person to get help with a tax return, these economic impact payments will be available throughout the rest of 2020.		The IRS does not have my direct deposit information.  What can I do?	In the coming weeks, Treasury plans to develop a web-based portal for individuals to provide their banking information to the IRS online, so that individuals can receive payments immediately as opposed to checks in the mail.		What if I can't complete my taxes by April 15?	Tax filings and payments for all federal income taxes )due on April 15, 2020, regardless of amount, will now be due on July 15, 2020.	Taxpayers are not required to file any documentation to take advantage of this delay, and no interest or penalties will be assessed in connection with this extension.  This is an expansion of the relief previously announced on March 18, 2020.	This relief only applies to federal income tax )payments otherwise due April 15, 2020, not state tax payments or deposits or payments of any other type of federal tax.	Treasury and IRS will issue additional guidance as needed and continue working with Congress, on a bipartisan basis, on legislation to provide further relief to the American people.	Visit for further information on IRS efforts to assist taxpayers.		What should I do if I receive calls claiming to be from the Treasury Department?	If you receive calls, emails, or other communications claiming to be from the Treasury Department and offering COVID-19 related grants or stimulus payments in exchange for personal financial information, or an advance fee, or charge of any kind, including the purchase of gift cards, please do not respond.  These are scams.  Please contact the FBI so that the scammers can be tracked and stopped.	Fraud involving payment of Federal taxes should be reported to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration.		Where can I get more information about economic impact payments?	The IRS will post all key information on as soon as it becomes available.	The IRS has a reduced staff in many of its offices but remains committed to helping eligible individuals receive their payments expeditiously.  Check for updated information on rather than calling IRS assistors who are helping process 2019 returns.			If I receive Social Security benefits, do I need to file a tax return to receive my Economic Impact Payment?	The Department of the Treasury and the IRS announced that Social Security beneficiaries who are not typically required to file tax returns will not need to file an abbreviated tax return to receive an Economic Impact Payment.  Instead, payments will be automatically deposited into their bank accounts.  Recipients will receive these payments as a direct deposit or by paper check, just as they would normally receive their benefits.		Will the IRS call or email me to get my bank information to receive my Economic Impact Payment?	No, the IRS is not going to call or email you asking to verify or provide your financial information so you can get an Economic Impact Payment.  You should also watch for text messages, websites, and social media attempts to get your money or personal information.	Be on the lookout!  Scammers may:	Emphasize the words "stimulus check" or "stimulus payment."  The official term is economic impact payment.	Ask you to sign over your economic impact payment check to them.	Ask by phone, email, text or social media for verification of personal and/or banking information saying that the information is needed to receive or speed up your economic impact payment.	Suggest that you can get a tax refund or economic impact payment faster by working on your behalf.  This scam could be conducted by social media or even in person.	Mail you a bogus check, perhaps in an odd amount, then tell you to call a number or verify information online in order to cash it.	If you receive unsolicited emails, text messages or social media attempts to gather information that appear to be from either the IRS or an organization closely linked to the IRS, such as the Electronic Federal Tax Payment System ),forward it to.	Taxpayers are encouraged not to engage potential scammers online or on the phone.  Learn more about reporting suspected scams by going to the Report Phishing and Online Scams page on.	Official IRS information about the COVID-19 pandemic and economic impact payments can be found on the Coronavirus Tax Relief page on.  The page is updated quickly when new information is available.