	What steps can my family take to reduce our risk of getting COVID-19?	Practice everyday preventive actions to help reduce your risk of getting sick and remind everyone in your home to do the same.  These actions are especially important for older adults and people who have severe chronic medical conditions.	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care.	Cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw the tissue in the trash.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food.	If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.  Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects.		How can my family and I prepare for COVID-19?	Create a household plan of action to help protect your health and the health of those you care about in the event of an outbreak of COVID-19 in your community:	Talk with the people who need to be included in your plan, and discuss what to do if a COVID-19 outbreak occurs in your community.	Plan ways to care for those who might be at greater risk for serious complications, particularly older adults and those with severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease.	Make sure they have access to several weeks of medications and supplies in case you need to stay home for prolonged periods of time.	Get to know your neighbors and find out if your neighborhood has a website or social media page to stay connected.	Create a list of local organizations that you and your household can contact in the event you need access to information, healthcare services, support, and resources.	Create an emergency contact list of family, friends, neighbors, carpool drivers, health care providers, teachers, employers, the local public health department, and other community resources.		What should I do if someone in my house gets sick with COVID-19?	Most people who get COVID-19 will be able to recover at home.  CDC has directions for people who are recovering at home and their caregivers, including:	Stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care.		If you develop emergency warning signs for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately.  Emergency warning signs include1:					Use a separate room and bathroom for sick household members.	)Clean hands regularly by handwashing with soap and water or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.	Provide your sick household member with clean disposable facemasks to wear at home, if available, to help prevent spreading COVID-19 to others.	Clean the sick room and bathroom, as needed, to avoid unnecessary contact with the sick person.	Avoid sharing personal items like utensils, food, and drinks.	 This list is not all inclusive.  Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.		Should I use soap and water or a hand sanitizer to protect against COVID-19?	Handwashing is one of the best ways to protect yourself and your family from getting sick.  Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food.  If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.		What cleaning products should I use to protect against COVID-19?	Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces such as tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets, and sinks.  If surfaces are dirty, clean them using detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.  To disinfect, most common EPA-registered household disinfectants will work.  See CDC's recommendations for household cleaning and disinfection.		Should I make my own hand sanitizer if I can't find it in the stores?	CDC recommends handwashing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or, using alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol when soap and water are not available.  These actions are part of everyday preventive actions individuals can take to slow the spread of respiratory diseases like COVID-19.	When washing hands, you can use plain soap or antibacterial soap.  Plain soap is as effective as antibacterial soap at removing germs.	If soap and water are not readily available, you can use an FDA-approved alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.  You can tell if the sanitizer contains at least 60% alcohol by looking at the product label.	CDC does not encourage the production and use of homemade hand sanitizer products because of concerns over the correct use of the ingredients and the need to work under sterile conditions to make the product.  Local industries that are looking into producing hand sanitizer to fill in for commercial shortages can refer to the World Health Organization guidance:.  Organizations should revert to the use of commercially produced, FDA-approved product once such supplies again become available.	To be effective against killing some types of germs, hand sanitizers need to have a strength of at least 60% alcohol and be used when hands are not visibly dirty or greasy.	Do not rely on "Do It Yourself" or "DIY" recipes based solely on essential oils or formulated without correct compounding practices.	Do not use hand sanitizer to disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects.  See CDC's information for cleaning and sanitizing your home.	See FAQs about hand hygiene for healthcare personnel responding to COVID-2019.