	How can I help protect myself?	Visit the COVID-19 Prevention and Treatment page to learn about how to protect yourself from respiratory illnesses, like COVID-19.		What should I do if I had close contact with someone who has COVID-19?	There is information for people who have had close contact, with a person confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, COVID-19 available online.		Who is at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19?	Older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions may be at higher risk for more serious complications from COVID-19.  These people who may be at higher risk of getting very sick from this illness, includes:							Am I at risk for COVID-19 in the United States?	This is a rapidly evolving situation and the risk assessment may change daily.  The latest updates are available on CDC's Coronavirus Disease 2019 )website.		Am I at risk for COVID-19 from packages or products shipping from China?	There is still a lot that is unknown about the newly emerged COVID-19 and how it spreads.  Two other coronaviruses have emerged previously to cause severe illness in people.  )The virus that causes COVID-19 is more genetically related to SARS-CoV than MERS-CoV, but both are betacoronaviruses with their origins in bats.  While we don't know for sure that this virus will behave the same way as SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, we can use the information gained from both of these earlier coronaviruses to guide us.  In general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient temperatures.  Coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread most often by respiratory droplets.  Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated with imported goods and there have not been any cases of COVID-19 in the United States associated with imported goods.  Information will be provided on the Coronavirus Disease 2019 )website as it becomes available.		Has anyone in the United States gotten infected?	Yes.  There have been cases of COVID-19 in the U.S related to travel and through close contact.  U.S case counts are updated regularly Mondays through Fridays.  See the current U.S case count of COVID-19.		Is it okay for me to donate blood?	In healthcare settings all across the United States, donated blood is a lifesaving, essential part of caring for patients.  The need for donated blood is constant, and blood centers are open and in urgent need of donations.  CDC encourages people who are well to continue to donate blood if they are able, even if they are practicing social distancing because of COVID-19.  CDC is supporting blood centers by providing recommendations that will keep donors and staff safe.  Examples of these recommendations include spacing donor chairs 6 feet apart, thoroughly adhering to environmental cleaning practices, and encouraging donors to make donation appointments ahead of time.		What should people at higher risk of serious illness from COVID-19 do?	If you are at higher risk of getting very sick from COVID-19, you should: stock up on supplies; take everyday precautions to keep space between yourself and others; when you go out in public, keep away from others who are sick; limit close contact and wash your hands often; and avoid crowds, cruise travel, and non-essential travel.  If there is an outbreak in your community, stay home as much as possible.  Watch for symptoms and emergency signs.  If you get sick, stay home and call your doctor.  More information on how to prepare, what to do if you get sick, and how communities and caregivers can support those at higher risk.		Do I still need to stay at least 6 feet away from people if wearing a cloth face covering?	Yes.  Wearing cloth face coverings is an additional public health measure people should take to reduce the spread of COVID-19.  CDC still recommends that you stay at least 6 feet away from other people ),frequent hand cleaning and other everyday preventive actions.  A cloth face covering is not intended to protect the wearer, but it may prevent the spread of virus from the wearer to others.  This would be especially important if someone is infected but does not have symptoms.  View CDC's guidance on how to protect yourself.		What type of cloth face covering should be worn?	Cloth face coverings can be made from household items or made at home from common materials at low cost.		When do you need to wear a cloth face covering?	A cloth face covering should be worn whenever people are in a community setting, especially in situations where you may be near people.  These settings include grocery stores and pharmacies.  These face coverings are not a substitute for social distancing.  Cloth face coverings are especially important to wear in public in areas of widespread COVID-19 illness.		Who should not wear cloth face coverings?	Cloth face coverings should not be placed on young children younger than 2 years of age, anyone who has trouble breathing, or is unconscious, incapacitated or otherwise unable to remove the cover without assistance.		Why is CDC recommending cloth face coverings instead of medical grade facemasks?	Surgical masks and N95 respirators are in short supply and should be reserved for healthcare workers or other medical first responders, as recommended by CDC guidance.		Why do you need to wear cloth face coverings?	In light of new data about how COVID-19 spreads, along with evidence of widespread COVID-19 illness in communities across the country, CDC recommends that people wear a cloth face covering to cover their nose and mouth in the community setting.  This is to protect people around you if you are infected but do not have symptoms.