	Who is at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19?	COVID-19 is a new disease and there is limited information regarding risk factors for severe disease.  Based on currently available information and clinical expertise, older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions might be at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19.	Based upon available information to date, those at high-risk for severe illness from COVID-19 include:							People of any age with severe obesity )40) or certain underlying medical conditions, particularly if not well controlled, such as those with diabetes, renal failure, or liver disease might also be at risk 	People who are pregnant should be monitored since they are known to be at risk with severe viral illness, however, to date data on COVID-19 has not shown increased risk 		Are people with disabilities at higher risk?	Most people with disabilities are not inherently at higher risk for becoming infected with or having severe illness from COVID-19.  Some people with physical limitations or other disabilities might be at a higher risk of infection because of their underlying medical condition.	People with certain disabilities might experience higher rates of chronic health conditions that put them at higher risk of serious illness and poorer outcomes from COVID-19.	Adults with disabilities are three times more likely to have heart disease, stroke, diabetes, or cancer than adults without disabilities.	You should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed.		How were the underlying conditions selected?	This list is based on:	What we are learning from the outbreak in other countries and in the United States.	What we know about risk from other respiratory infections, like flu.	As CDC gets more information about COVID-19 cases here in the US, we will update this list as needed.		What about underlying medical conditions that are not included on this list?	Based on available information, adults aged 65 years and older and people of any age with underlying medical conditions included on this list are at higher risk for severe illness and poorer outcomes from COVID-19.  CDC is collecting and analyzing data regularly and will update the list when we learn more.  People with underlying medical conditions not on the list might also be at higher risk and should consult with their healthcare provider if they are concerned.	We encourage all people, regardless of risk, to:	Take steps to protect yourself and others.	Call your healthcare provider if you are sick with a fever, cough, or shortness of breath.	Follow CDC travel guidelines and the recommendations of your state and local health officials.		What does more severe illness mean?	Severity typically means how much impact the illness or condition has on your body's function.  You should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed.		What does well controlled mean?	Generally, well-controlled means that your condition is stable, not life-threatening, and laboratory assessments and other findings are as similar as possible to those without the health condition.  You should talk with your healthcare provider if you have a question about your health or how your health condition is being managed.