	What can Alaskans do to prepare for the novel coronavirus?	)Can we expect COVID-19 cases to occur in Alaska?	There is currently one confirmed case in Alaska.  This is a travel-associated case of COVID-19, not a case of community-acquired infection.  As transmission occurs in more and more places around the world, it is increasingly likely that outbreaks will occur in the United States, including Alaska.  If an outbreak does occur in Alaska, it could cause many people to become ill in a short period of time.  This could stress our health care system and disrupt many of our regular activities, including school, work and social events.  As such we need to work together to be as prepared as possible.	How contagious and deadly is this virus?	While we still have much to learn about this new disease, it appears to be more transmissible than the seasonal flu but less transmissible than measles.  Current research so far indicates that each infected person transmits the virus to about 2.5 other people on average.  The case fatality rate for this disease is not known as it is still early in the outbreak.  Current data show that the case fatality is about 2-- 3%, but the actual case fatality rate may be lower because it's likely that many people with milder illness are not being identified.  For perspective, the estimated COVID-19 case fatality rate is considerably higher than seasonal flu ),but lower than SARS.	)Why is everyone bringing up influenza in the context of COVID-19?	While the flu vaccine does not protect against COVID-19, flu symptoms are similar to COVID-19 symptoms and require similar resources.  Our health care system will be better able to manage a COVID19 outbreak if we have fewer flu cases.  Therefore, we are urging everyone over six months of age to get their annual flu vaccine if they haven't already done so.  Seasonal influenza activity typically continues into April or May.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )estimates that about 8% of the U.S population gets the flu every year, resulting in hundreds of thousands of hospitalizations and tens of thousands of deaths.	What happens if the new coronavirus spreads to Alaska?	If we have just a few cases, disruptions to daily life will probably not be significant.  But if community spread begins to occur, Alaskans should be prepared for changes to their daily routines.  For example, we might implement some or all of the following measures to slow the spread of the disease.Schools or child care facilities may be temporarily dismissed.Workplaces may encourage working from home and may replace in-person meetings with teleconferences.Community gatherings may be modified, postponed, or canceled.These measures may be implemented even if the number of cases of COVID-19 in the community is fairly small.	What should Alaskans do to prevent the spread of respiratory infections?	Keep at least 6 feet away from ill people who are coughing or sneezing.  Wash your hands frequently with soap and water for 20 seconds.  If you don't have soap and water, use alcohol-based hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol.Try to avoid touching your face, mouth, nose, and eyes.  Routinely clean frequently touched objects and surfaces, including toys, doorknobs, keyboards, and phones.If you begin to feel ill, stay home!  Stay home for at least 24 hours after you no longer have a fever without the use of fever-reducing medicines.Cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue and throw away the tissue after use.  If you don't have a tissue, cough and sneeze into the inside of your elbow.  If you think you have COVID-19, call ahead and make an appointment before seeing a clinician.  This will help the health care provider's office take steps to keep other people from getting infected or exposed.  When you call, make sure you tell the provider if you think you may have been exposed to the virus that causes COVID-19, either through travel or with a case of the disease.	What else can Alaskans be doing to prepare for COVID-19?	Stay informed.  Follow updates from public health officials as well as from schools and your employer.  Whether for a pandemic, an earthquake, or some other disaster, Alaskans should have an emergency kit.  Include supplies like soap, hand sanitizer, and tissues.  If you or a family member regularly take a prescription medication, talk to your health care provider and pharmacist about getting a larger supply.  Have any nonprescription drugs and other health supplies on hand, including pain relievers, stomach remedies, cough and cold medicines, fluids with electrolytes, and vitamins.  For more information about emergency kits, please see this information from CDC and this information from the Department of Homeland Security.  When preparing a plan, consider the following.	o If you have children, begin planning for the possibility of school dismissals.  If you can't stay home with your children, could a neighbor or friend look after them?	Ideally, children should be cared for in as small of groups as possible.  Get to know your neighbors and include their contact information in your plan.  Public health officials may recommend that everyone in the household of an ill person stay home, not just the person who is sick.  If this happens, can your neighbors shop for you and leave items you might need on your doorstep?  Identify a room in your house to separate ill people from those who are healthy.  Ideally, identify a bathroom that would only be used by those who are ill.	Especially if you live alone, talk to your friends and family about what you might need.  If you do fall ill, keep in touch by phone with a friend or family member.  Do your part to fight fear, stigma, and misinformation that can surface when people are anxious about a new disease.	What should businesses and business owners be doing to prepare for the possibility of the new coronavirus spreading in Alaska?	Actively encourage sick employees to stay home.  Send employees home if they become ill at work.  Ensure sick leave policies that support this goal.  Provide soap and water or alcohol-based hand sanitizer to employees and encourage employees to wash their hands regularly.  Place posters that encourage handwashing in kitchen and bathroom areas of your workplace.  Routinely clean commonly touched objects, like doorknobs, phones and keyboards.  Make a plan for your workplace.  Your plan may have some or all of the following goals.  Prepare for high levels of absenteeism among employees.  Employees may have to stay home if they are sick or to take care of children if schools are closed.  Identify essential functions you would prioritize even if many employees are absent and create a continuity of operations plan.	)Crosstrain employees in order to more readily maintain these core functions.	Identify ways to reduce contact between employees.  Options include staggered shifts and telework.  Plan for supply chain disruptions.Communicate these plans to employees and other stakeholders.	What should schools be doing?	Maintain awareness of the COVID-19 situation.  Review, update, and prepare to implement emergency operations plans.  )Guidance for developing EOPs can be found here.	Emphasize actions such as staying home when sick; appropriately covering coughs and sneezes; cleaning frequently touched surfaces; and washing hands often.  CDC offers free health promotion materials related to hand washing.  Make sure staff and students have easy access to soap, hand sanitizer, and tissues.Begin planning now for the possibility of school dismissals or closures, or a need for social distancing measures in schools --communication with staff, families, and the community will be critical.	Work with public health to determine if, when, and for how long childcare programs or schools may need to be dismissed.Make plans for continuity of education, meals, and other services for students.For more information, review CDC's interim guidance for schools.	What can we expect in rural areas?	While COVID-19 can be serious, many cases appear to have mild respiratory symptoms that do not require hospitalization.  All patients suspected to have COVID-19 should be immediately put into isolation.  This isolation might occur in a hospital or home setting, depending on available resources and the individual patient's situation.Some patients may be flown to hospitals elsewhere while others may be cared for within the community.  Many people who contract COVID-19 do not get very sick and do not need to be hospitalized.	How should Alaskans get ready to help others?	Begin preparing yourself, your family, and your community.  Understand that this may be a stressful situation and respond with calm, thoughtful planning, and intentional action.  Alaskans are resilient and accustomed to preparing for whatever may come our way, and we are stronger together.  Alaskans are known for helping each other when we are faced with obstacles, and this is the time to help each other.Stay calm and share accurate information.Talk to your neighbors, friends, and co-workers about how to help each other.  Ask them if they have any special needs that should be considered in a health emergency.	Visit Prepare Your Health to learn more about preparing your household for an emergency.	Updates will be posted to our novel coronavirus website.	The CDC provides guidance on nonpharmaceutical interventions to protect against COVID-19.	Learn more about community mitigation measures by reading this CDC report.	What is novel coronavirus?	The Alaska Department of Health and Social Services is closely monitoring an outbreak of respiratory illness, COVID-19, caused by a novel )coronavirus.  This virus was first detected in China in December 2019; it spreads from person-to-person and has the potential to cause severe illness and uncommonly death.  Four well-known strains of coronaviruses regularly circulate in human populations globally and are a frequent cause of upper respiratory infections; COVID-19 is new so it's called the novel coronavirus.	How do coronaviruses spread?	There are still many things that are unknown about this new virus.	What are the symptoms?	Symptoms are likely to appear 2-- 14 days after exposure, and include fever, cough, and shortness of breath.	How severe is COVID-19?	Reported cases have ranged from mild illness )to severe pneumonia anduncommonly death.  Persons at increased risk for severe illness include older adults and persons with underlying medical conditions.	What is the current travel guidance from CDC?	How can I prevent contracting or spreading respiratory infections?	There is no vaccine currently available to prevent COVID-19 infections.	Wash your hands frequently with soap and water for 20 seconds.  Use alcohol-based hand sanitizer if you don't have soap and water.  Hang these handwashing posters around your home and workplace.Cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue you throw away after use or the inside of your elbow if you don't have a tissue handy.Avoid touching your face, mouth, nose and eyes.If you begin to feel ill, stay home for at least 24 hours after you no longer have a fever without the use of fever-reducing medicines.If you have to go to the doctor, call ahead and make an appointment.  This helps the provider's office take steps to keep other people from being exposed.  Routinely clean frequently-touched surfaces and objects.	Whether for a pandemic, an earthquake, or some other disaster, Alaskans should have an emergency kit.  Use the resources listed below to help you put together your kit and emergency plan.Stay informed.  Follow updates from DHSS, CDC and other trusted public health officials, as well as from schools and your employer.Do your part to fight fear, stigma and misinformation which can only make the situation worse.	Where can I find international Travel Notice information specific to COVID-19?	Please check the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )website for the most updated Travel Notices specific to COVID-19.	What are considerations to take into account when deciding whether or not to travel internationally?	Because the COVID-19 epidemic is rapidly evolving, travel notices and restrictions may change daily.  If you have international travel planned, know that your plans may be interrupted if there are new outbreaks or increases in community transmission of disease in either final or transit locations.  This means that you might be delayed or restricted from returning home, re-routed, or required to undergo home monitoring or quarantine when you return to the United States.  Because of these uncertainties, careful consideration should be made before deciding to travel internationally at this time.	What about international trips sponsored by schools and universities?	Trip organizers and parents should be aware that our understanding of where and how extensively COVID-19 is occurring globally is changing every day, and outbreaks can evolve rapidly.  Therefore it is not possible to predict when and where outbreaks may occur and when new travel restrictions and quarantines may be instituted by the Federal Government.  Consequently, trip organizers should carefully consider these risks before proceeding with student travel plans.	Where can I find more information about COVID-19 travel guidance?	If you feel sick and have reason to believe you have COVID-19 do not go to a clinic or hospital without first calling ahead.  Calling first will help the clinic or hospital prepare to greet you and take care of you in the safest possible way.  Tell them that you are being monitored by public health for potential exposure to novel coronavirus and need follow up medical care and testing.If you are sick and have been diagnosed with COVID-19 or a health care provider suspects you have COVID-19 and you are waiting on test results, follow the steps below to help prevent the disease from spreading to people in your home and community.  2-1-1 cannot provide screening for COVID-19.  Only a health care provider can give a person a referral for testing.  2-1-1 is there to answer your general questions about the disease and to assist the community with other needs.  )Again, your health care provider is who you need to call for a testing referral.	If you were advised that you should monitor yourself for symptoms of COVID-19 after a low-risk exposure to someone with COVID-19, please follow the guidance below.	If you are sick and have been diagnosed with COVID-19 or a health care provider suspects you have COVID-19 and you are waiting on test results, follow the steps below to help prevent the disease from spreading to people in your home and community.	You should restrict activities outside your home, except for getting medical care.  Do not go to work, school, or public areas.  Avoid using public transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis.	People: As much as possible, you should stay in a specific room and away from other people in your home.  Also, you should use a separate bathroom, if available.	Animals: You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while sick.  When possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick; if you must care for your pet, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets and wear a facemask.  See COVID-19 and Animals for more information.	If you have a medical appointment, call the healthcare provider and tell them that you have or may have COVID-19.  This will help the healthcare provider's office take steps to keep other people from getting infected or exposed.	You should wear a facemask when you are around other people )or pets and before you enter a healthcare provider's office.  If you are not able to wear a facemask ),then people who live with you should not be in the same room with you, or they should wear a facemask if they enter your room.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.  Throw used tissues in a lined trash can; immediately wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 to 95% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel dry.  Soap and water is preferred if hands are visibly dirty.	You should not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, or bedding with other people or pets in your home.  After using these items, they should be washed thoroughly with soap and water.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not available, clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel dry.  Soap and water is preferred if hands are visibly dirty.  Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	High touch surfaces include counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures, toilets, phones, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables.  Also, clean any surfaces that may have blood, stool, or body fluids on them.  Use a household cleaning spray or wipe, according to the label instructions.  Labels contain instructions for safe and effective use of the cleaning product including precautions you should take when applying the product, such as wearing gloves and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product.	Seek prompt medical attention if your illness is worsening.  )Before seeking care, call your healthcare provider and tell them that you have, or are being evaluated for, COVID-19.  Put on a facemask before you enter the facility.  These steps will help the healthcare provider's office to keep other people in the office or waiting room from getting infected or exposed.	If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have, or may have COVID19.  If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive.	Patients with confirmed COVID-19 should remain under home isolation precautions until the risk of secondary transmission to others is thought to be low.  The decision to discontinue home isolation precautions will be made on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with healthcare providers and state and local public health officials.	If you are a traveler from a country with widespread ongoing transmission ),follow the steps below to monitor your health and avoid spreading the disease to others if you get sick.	What should I do if I have been in a country with widespread transmission of COVID-19 but am not sick?  You should stay home during the 14 days after the last day you were in the country with widespread ongoing transmission.You should not go to work or school, and should avoid public places for 14 days.  You should take your temperature twice a day.	You should monitor your health for cough, shortness of breath or feeling feverish during the 14 days after the last day you were in the country with widespread ongoing transmission.	What should I do if I get sick?	If you develop a fever, cough, or have trouble breathing: Seek medical care, but call ahead before you go to a doctor's office or emergency room.Tell your doctor about your recent travel and your symptoms.  Avoid contact with others.	If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have been exposed to COVID-19.  If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive or immediately after they arrive.	If you need to seek medical care for other reasons, such as dialysis, call ahead to your doctor and tell them about your recent travel to an area with widespread or ongoing community spread of COVID-19.	If you were advised that you should monitor yourself for symptoms of COVID-19 after a low-risk exposure to someone with COVID-19, please follow the guidance below: Remain alert for respiratory symptoms )and fever.	If you feel feverish or develop a cough or shortness of breath:Limit contact with others.	Seek health advice.  Before going to a doctor's office or emergency room call ahead and tell the provider or office about your recent exposure and symptoms.	Practice strict respiratory etiquette and hygiene including covering your nose and mouth with a tissue when coughing or sneezing and washing hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap is not available.	Additional things you can do to keep yourself and others healthy are:Wash hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not available, use alcohol-based hand sanitizers.Avoid touching eyes, mouth and nose with unwashed hands.	Do not share personal items such as water bottles, smokes and/or vapes.  Avoid close contact with individuals who are sick.Stay home when you are sick.Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then immediately discard the tissue in the trash.Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.Practice social distancing.  Avoid large gatherings and stay 6 feet away from other people, as much as possible.	Why are you being asked to monitor your temperature and symptoms for up to 14 days?	You may have been exposed to coronavirus disease 2019 ),and by monitoring for symptoms carefully twice a day, you can have an early warning that you might be getting sick.  Monitoring also allows you and public health officials to know when they need to take precautions so you don't infect others in your home or in the community.  The monitoring period is for 14 days because that is the longest interval between when someone is exposed and when they could develop symptoms.	What are the signs and symptoms of novel coronavirus?	The most common symptoms of novel coronavirus are fever and cough, sometimes difficulty breathing, more rarely sore throat, muscle aches, and abdominal discomfort.  These symptoms can also be due to many other illnesses.  If you develop a fever or any symptoms, it doesn't necessarily mean you have novel coronavirus, but you should follow up with a health care provider.	How should you monitor your health during this time period?	Use the "nCoV Temperature Monitoring Log" to record your temperature and to indicate whether you have any of the symptoms listed on the page.Take your temperature ORALLY )with a DIGITAL thermometer twice a day for 14 days.  Try to take your temperature 12 hours apart each day ).Record the time you monitored your symptoms.  Mark if you have any of the symptoms of novel coronavirus listed on the form.Record your temperature on the form in the appropriate space ).If you are taking aspirin, Tylenol(r) ),or MOTRIN(r) ),take your temperature before your next dose.  If you forget to take your temperature, take it as soon as you remember.  If your temperature is 100.4°F )or higher or if you develop any symptom listed on the form, you should contact a health care provider before going to seek care.Someone will be in contact with you to check in on the monitoring process.  You may receive text messages asking whether you have developed symptoms.  Please respond to these text messages.	What should I do if I become ill during this monitoring period?	DO NOT GO to a clinic or hospital without first calling ahead.  Calling first will help the clinic or hospital prepare to greet you and take care of you in the safest possible way.  Tell them that you are being monitored by public health for potential exposure to novel coronavirus and need follow up medical care and testing.	How am I expected to limit my activities during the monitoring period?	You are requested to remain at home or in a similar setting.  Avoid congregate or group settings, limit public activities like school and work, and practice social distancing.	The State of Alaska is closely monitoring an outbreak of respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus.  )While there is no evidence that COVID-19 is spreading in Alaska at this time, cases have been identified in over a dozen states, including evidence of community transmission in some areas.	Alaskans can help prevent the spread of COVID-19 by washing hands frequently with soap and water for 20 seconds.  If you don't have soap and water, use alcohol-based hand sanitizer that is at least 60% alcohol.  The Department of Health and Social Services will publish current information about COVID-19 on-line.	Please be respectful and treat others with courtesy.  The risk of COVID-19 is not at all connected with race, ethnicity or nationality.  Stigma will not help fight the illness.  Do not make determinations of risk based on race or country of origin and be sure to maintain confidentiality of people with confirmed COVD-19 infection.	The Alaska Department of Health and Social Services has enlisted Alaska 2-1-1 as a resource for handling the large volume of calls from the public with questions regarding Coronavirus Disease 2019.  )The 2-1-1 information referral specialists are currently equipped to take and triage such calls, and to refer callers to appropriate resources according to their current procedures.  Starting Monday, March 9, the 2-1-1 call center staff will be supplemented with an Alaska Respond volunteer who will be in the call center and able to support the staff.  Alaska Respond volunteers are licensed medical professionals and will be able to lend their health care expertise to this effort.  For Alaskans who live in areas where 2-1-1 cannot be accessed, please call 800-478-2221.	What is a coronavirus?	Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that usually cause mild respiratory illnesses such as the common cold.  The virus is related to the SARS-associated coronavirus that caused the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome )in 2002-2003; however, it is not the same virus.	What are the common symptoms of COVID-19 illness?	Mild to severe respiratory illness with fever, cough, shortness of breath, and fatigue.	How does the virus spread?	Per the U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ),the virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person through coughs and sneezes.  Respiratory droplets can land in the mouths, noses, and eyes of people who are nearby and lead to infection.  Therefore, it is best to stay at least 6 feet away from people who are sick with a respiratory infection.	It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes.  We do not know how long this novel coronavirus can live on surfaces, so it is important to clean frequently touched surfaces )with standard household disinfectants such as Lysol, Clorox wipes, or hydrogen peroxide.	Who should seek medical evaluation for COVID-19?	If you develop a fever and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as a cough or difficulty breathing, and if:	You have been in close contact )with a person known to have COVID-19, or You live in or have recently travelled or worked in an area with ongoing spread.	Please call your health care provider BEFORE you go to the clinic and let them know about your symptoms and recent travel or contact.  Your healthcare professional will work with Alaska's Department of Health and Social Services )and the Centers for Disease Control )to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.	What should I do if I suspect an employee is at risk for COVID-19?	If an employee meets the above criteria, please notify your supervisor or human resources official.  It is important that an employee who meets the criteria for COVID-19 be placed in a private room away from others.  The employee should also be asked to wear a face mask, bandana, or otherwise cover their nose and mouth, if possible.	Also request the employee exit the workplace as soon as possible.  The employee can then contact their supervisor and HR manager to discuss work needs, telecommuting options, and leave options.	If an employee cannot leave the workplace immediately due to transportation or another justifiable reason, take action to limit his or her contact with other staff.  Symptomatic employees cannot be within 6 feet of other people.  Please note that employees should not remain in the workplace simply to complete a routine work assignment.	Will employees be required to take leave if exhibiting symptoms consistent with COVID-19?	As long as the Department of Health and Human Services )continues to declare the response to COVID-19 as a public health emergency for the United States, employees with COVID-19 symptoms will be deemed unfit for duty in the workplace and required to leave the workplace.  Supervisors need to document observations of the employee's symptoms, why the supervisor determined the employee was unfit for duty, efforts made to minimize the symptomatic employee's risk to others, and the circumstances surrounding the supervisor's request for the employee to leave the workplace.	Per policy, if the employee is too ill to work, the employee will be required to take leave.  However, if the employee is well enough to work, situational telecommuting is allowable on a voluntary basis with supervisor approval, in accordance with the Telecommuting Policy )1.  Managers are responsible for providing employees clear direction on assignment and project expectations while telecommuting.  Although a written telecommuting agreement is recommended, this requirement is waived during a situational telecommuting scenario.  Your Human Resource staff is available to provide guidance on establishing telecommuting arrangements in excess of 14 days or if the employee is telecommuting from a location other than their duty station city.	Continue to treat colleagues in the workplace with respect and dignity.  We have a shared responsibility to the general public in minimizing transmission of COVID-19.  This includes doing your part to fight fear, stigma and misinformation which can only make the situation worse.	The Telecommuting Policy references a pandemic health crisis.  COVID-19 can only be declared a pandemic health crisis by DHSS.	When is it appropriate to use Leave Without Pay or FMLA leave?	The use of Leave Without Pay )will depend on the terms of your collective bargaining agreement or agency policy.  In many cases, LWOP cannot be used until personal leave is exhausted.  Please consult with your HR Manager or union representative for specific questions as to your collective bargaining agreement.  Family Medical Leave Act )leave may be an option depending on your specific situation.  Please consult your HR Manager and medical provider to discuss.	Unions also may have shared medical leave banks or a catastrophic leave bank employees could use.  Please contact your union for further information.	Can employees take leave or telework to care for a sick family member?	Yes.  Per policy, if the employee is to engage in full-time caretaking, the employee will be required to take leave.  However, if the employee is able to work while caring for a sick family member, situational telecommuting is allowable on a voluntary basis with supervisor approval, in accordance with the Telecommuting Policy.  )Managers are responsible for providing employees clear direction on assignment and project expectations while telecommuting.  Although a written telecommuting agreement is recommended, this requirement is waived during a situational telecommuting scenario.  Your Human Resource staff is available to provide guidance on establishing telecommuting arrangements in excess of 14 days or if the employee is telecommuting from a location other than their duty station city.	When is it acceptable for the employee to return to work?	In accordance with guidance provided by the CDC, an employee should remain at home, away from the workforce and public, until the risk of secondary transmission to others is thought to be low.  The decision to return to the workplace should be made on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with healthcare providers and state and local health departments.  A person who been exposed to the virus that causes COVID-19 may be asked to stay away from other people for 14 days, even if they do not have symptoms.  This decision will be made by the epidemiological staff in the Division of Public Health.  A person who has tested positive for the virus that causes COVID-19 will be asked to isolate until they are cleared by the Department of Health and Social Services.  A person who does not have the virus that causes COVID-19 but is ill is asked to stay at home and away from others until they have not had a fever for more than 72 hours.	Will employees be required to provide documentation from a health care provider to support their absence for COVID-19?	To avoid overburdening medical providers and limiting exposure, the CDC suggests that medical attention is necessary only when emergency warning signs are present or if an individual has chronic health conditions.  Therefore, unless an employee is suspected of leave abuse, or an employee qualifies for leave protections under FMLA/AFLA, certification from a health care provider should not be requested.  We recommend contacting your Human Resource staff prior to requesting documentation.	State of Alaska employees also have access to Teladoc, 24/7 access to a doctor through phone and video consultation.  Employees who want to seek medical advice for themselves, family members, or as a caregiver can consult with Teladoc doctors without overburdening medical providers in Alaskan facilities.	Is my job protected if I am out of the office for more than 14 days without using FMLA?	If you use personal leave, leave without pay, or telecommute with permission from your supervisor, your job is protected.  However, if there is suspicion you are abusing leave, you would have all rights under your collective bargaining agreement.  Please contact your HR staff for more information.	If I feel unsafe in the workplace because of COVID-19, can I telecommute?	Alaska's Chief Medical Officer has designated public places, such as workplaces, as safe locations at this time and will update the HSS website if the status changes.  Therefore, an employee's feeling of being unsafe at the workplace because of a general fear of COVID-19 does not, standing alone, justify a situational telecommute request like having COVID-19 symptoms or a COVID-19 symptomatic family member would.  However, the State's Telecommuting Policy )allows supervisors broad discretion in establishing telecommuting arrangements, including providing clear expectations, monitoring employee compliance, and providing assignments to be completed.  So, a supervisor can consider the request, but must also ensure adequate office coverage, staffing of essential operations, and impact on mission.  Management retains the right to approve or deny telecommuting requests based on established criteria in the Telecommuting Policy.	)What can I do to prepare for COVID-19 impacts to my workplace?	All agencies need to consider how to lower the impact in their workplace.  Prepare for possible increase in numbers of absences due to illness in employees and/or their family members.  Implement contingency plans to continue your essential business functions in case you experience higher than usual absenteeism.	Keep medical conditions confidential.  Remember that communications and records on medical issues, or suspected medical issues, must be kept confidential.  Cross-train personnel to perform essential functions so that the workplace is able to operate even if key staff members are absent.Assess your essential functions and the reliance that other agencies and the community have on your services.  Be prepared to change your practices or services if needed to maintain critical operations.	Supervisors should work with their department's directory administrators to prepare a list of pre-approved employees for remote accounts, Virtual Private Networking )to work files and systems can be activated on short notice.	What can I do to prevent COVID-19 illnesses in my workplace?	Encourage sick employees to stay home.	Employees who have symptoms of acute respiratory illness are recommended to stay home and not come to work until they are free of fever ),signs of a fever, and any other symptoms for at least 72 hours, without the use of fever-reducing or other symptom altering medicines.  )Employees should notify their supervisor and stay home if they are sick.	Emphasize good hygiene practices.	Wash your hands frequently, ideally with soap and warm water.  Watch a World Health Organization video on best hand washing practices.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid close contact with sick people.	Provide disinfectant wipes for employees to clean their personal workspace and common areas.  Provide hand sanitizer for the use of employees and members of the public that may visit your office.	Provide tissues for an employee who is exhibiting symptoms of the flu to cover coughs and sneezes while exiting the workplace.	What can I do to manage my medical care?	Involve your Human Resources staff under the following circumstances:If an employee returns to the workplace or declines to leave the workplace while exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19.If you suspect an employee of abusing their leave.If you have questions regarding invoking LWOP or FMLA leave.	Where can I find more information?	A non-emergent, non-HR COVID-19 support line has be set up in the Division of Public Health to assist you.	For travelers returning within 14 days from the time you left an area with widespread, ongoing community spread such as Europe, China and other countries )you should:Stay home and avoid contact with other household members.  Contact your employer and do not go to work or school for this 14-day period after you return.	For travelers returning within 14 days from outside of Alaska )you should:Discuss your work situation with your employer before returning to work.  Minimize contact with people as much as possible, self-monitor and practice social distancing.This may mean not going to work or school if you cannot safely be distanced from others --especially if you traveled in a location where community transmission is occurring.	Take your temperature with a thermometer two times a day and monitor for fever.  Also watch for cough or trouble breathing.Do not take mass transportation during the time you are practicing social distancing.Avoid crowded places )and limit your activities in public.Keep your distance from others ).If you get sick with fever ),cough, or shortness of breath, please call your health care provider.If you seek medical care for other reasons, such as dialysis, call ahead to your doctor and tell them about your recent travel.	All Alaskans should follow previous guidance including regular hand washing, cleaning surfaces and avoiding large gatherings.	)This is not a mandate.	Wash your hands often or use hand sanitizer if soap or water are not available.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose and face.	Cover coughs or sneezes.	Stop shaking hands.	Regularly clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and items.	People who are over 60, and anyone who has serious chronic health conditions such as heart and lung disease, and diabetes, are at increased risk of developing severe illness and dying from COVID-19.  Reduce your exposure:Stay home as much as possible.  Ask family or friends to bring in items you need.Avoid crowds and mass gatherings where exposure risk is greater.Stay at least six feet away from others who are sick.Limit close contact and wash your hands often.If you can, telecommute for work.  Watch for symptoms including cough, fever, and shortness of breath.Have a plan in case you get sick and know how to take care of yourself.  This includes having necessary supplies on hand, such as prescription and over-the-counter medications, other medical necessities, groceries, and other household items.