	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )is responding to an outbreak of respiratory disease caused by a novel )coronavirus that was first detected in China and which has now been detected in many locations internationally, including in the United States.  The disease has been named "coronavirus disease 2019".	")In Connecticut and throughout the world, influenza )activity is high.  The CDC encourages all people aged 6 months and older to be vaccinated.  It is not too late to get vaccinated for the flu.  Check with your healthcare provider, call your local health department, or visit the HealthMap Vaccine Finder )for availability of flu vaccinations.	What is the Coronavirus/COVID-19?	Coronavirus Disease 2019 )is a respiratory illness that can spread from person to person.  There are many types of human coronaviruses, including some that commonly cause mild upper-respiratory tract illnesses.  COVID-19 is a new disease, caused by a novel )coronavirus that has not previously been seen in humans.  Current symptoms reported for patients with COVID-19 have included mild to severe respiratory illness with fever, cough, and difficulty breathing.	The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to the virus.  CDC recommends everyday preventive actions to help prevent the spread of respiratory diseases, including:	Wash your hands thoroughly and frequently.  Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.  Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.	You can read more information about COVID-19 at the U.S Food and Drug Administration's website, where they offer answers to frequently asked questions about the virus.	Stay Safe, Stay Home: The Governor signed an executive order directing Connecticut residents to "Stay Safe, Stay Home."  It orders all nonessential businesses statewide to prohibit in-person functions.  This remains in effect until April 22, unless modified.  Guidance has been issued to the state's businesses.	Travelers: Any person coming into Connecticut by any mode of transportation for any reason is strongly urged to self-quarantine for 14 days.	Gatherings: All social and recreational gatherings of more than 5 people are prohibited.  This includes things such as sports, parades, concerts, festivals, live performances, and conventions.  Religious, spiritual, and worship gatherings of more than 50 are prohibited.  This remains in effect through April 30, unless modified.	Food establishments: Restaurants and bars that serve food are required to provide take-out and delivery services for off-premise consumption only.  These establishments must limit entrance of customers to the minimum extent necessary to pick up and/or pay for orders, and use touchless payment if available.  This order remains in effect through April 30, unless modified.	Retail establishments: Stores that are permitted to stay open under the "Stay Safe, Stay Home" executive order must follow "Safe Store Rules" that several requirements, such as a cap on occupancy at 50% capacity, and floor markings measuring 6 feet must be at checkout lines, among other items.  Guidance has been issued detailing all of the "Safe Store Rules."	Gyms, movie theaters, hair and nail salons: All gyms, fitness centers, and similar sports venues; theaters and cinemas; and hair salons, barbershops, nail salons, spas, and tattoo parlors are closed until April 30, unless modified.	Schools: Classes at all public schools are canceled through April 20, unless modified.	The COVID-19 outbreak began in Connecticut with the first case confirmed on March 8, 2020.  The disease was named "coronavirus disease 2019", and then abbreviated COVID-19.  This fact sheet uses Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )definitions to provide an outlook for the Connecticut populations at greatest risk, and data from the Connecticut Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System.	)Who Is At Higher Risk for COVID-19?	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )based their definition of high-risk on early information out of China, where the COVID-19 epidemic began, that showed certain populations were at higher risk of getting sick from this illness or having more complications.	According to the CT BRFSS, approximately 30% of Connecticut's population is age 60 or older, that's about 845,000 Connecticut adults.	The CT BRFSS collects information on chronic disease in the population.  This allows for us to determine how many adults in Connecticut have high-risk medical conditions, which includes lung disease ),cardiovascular disease, or diabetes.	Among CT adults that are already considered at-risk for COVID-19 complications because of their age ),some are at an even more increased risk because they have high-risk medical conditions.  That equates to about 335,000 Connecticut adults.	Knowing that certain people are at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19, it is especially important for all Connecticut residents to take actions to reduce not only their own risk of getting sick, but to protect the most vulnerable.	What is Social Distancing?	Social distancing will protect you and others by taking everyday precautions to keep sufficient space between people.  The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to the COVID-19 virus.	Avoid crowds as much as possible.  When you go out in public, keep away from others who are sick, limit close contact and wash your hands often.  During a COVID-19 outbreak in your community, stay home as much as possible to further reduce your risk of being exposed, and risk to others.	In any age group, having comorbid conditions, that is, two or more chronic diseases or conditions, makes someone at increased risk of complications from COVID-19.  The CT BRFSS allows us to determine how many adults in Connecticut have comorbid chronic conditions.  Comorbidity was calculated based on the following BRFSS indicators of chronic disease conditions: asthma, COPD, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, kidney diseases, cancer, arthritis and depression.  In Connecticut, about 650,000 Connecticut adults have comorbid conditions.	)Many people are asking questions about how long the virus causing COVID-19 disease lives on surfaces.	The CDC currently states that "novel coronavirus may remain viable for hours to days on surfaces made from a variety of materials".  )It is important to understand that being "alive" on surfaces is not the same as being infectious.  At this point in time, we still do not know if the virus is infectious on surfaces, and if it is, how long it remains infectious.	The good news is that this and other coronaviruses are easily killed when proper disinfection practices are followed.  This means cleaning surfaces first with routine cleansers like soap and water to remove dirt and grime, then applying a disinfectant listed on the EPA "List N"- disinfectants effective and approved for use against the virus causing COVID-19 disease, and following label directions for how to apply it and how long it must remain on surfaces in order to work.	For useful information on disinfectants for use against SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus that causes the disease COVID-19, review the guidance from the U.S Environmental Protection Agency.	What is coronavirus disease 2019?	)Coronavirus disease 2019 )is a respiratory illness that can spread from person to person.  The virus that causes COVID-19 was first identified in Wuhan, China.	Can people in the U.S get COVID19?	Yes.  COVID-19 is spreading from person to person in parts of the United States.	How does COVID-19 spread?	The virus is thought to spread mainly between people who are in close contact with one another.  )It also may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or eyes --but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	What are the symptoms of COVID19?	Patients with COVID-19 have had mild to severe respiratory illness with symptoms of fever, cough ,shortness of breath.	What are severe complications from this virus?	Some patients develop pneumonia, multi-organ failure, and in some cases death.	How can I help protect myself?	People can help protect themselves from respiratory illness with everyday preventive actions:	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	If you are sick, you should:	Stay in your room, avoid public places.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Wash hands frequently.	Is there a treatment?	There is no specific treatment for COVID-19, but treatment can be given to relieve symptoms.