	How do I prevent and prepare for COVID-19?	There is currently no vaccine to prevent coronavirus disease 2019.  )The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to the virus.	)If you are around other people, keep 6 feet between you when possible.  Avoid hugs, handshakes, large gatherings and close quarters.	Why?  The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person.  When someone coughs or sneezes, they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth, which may contain the virus.  If you are too close, you can breathe in the droplets, including the coronavirus if the person coughing has the disease.	Wash your hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  Or use a hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.	Clean your hands especially after you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing.	Why?  Washing your hands with soap and water or using alcohol-based hand sanitizer kills viruses that may be on your hands.	Why?  Hands touch many surfaces and can pick up viruses.  Once contaminated, hands can transfer the virus to your eyes, nose or mouth.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze or use the inside of your elbow.  Throw used tissues in the trash.	Why?  Droplets spread the virus.  By following good respiratory hygiene, you protect the people around you from viruses such as cold, flu and COVID-19.	Clean AND disinfect frequently touched surfaces daily.  This includes tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets, and sinks.	If surfaces are dirty, first clean with detergent or soap and water, and then disinfect.  Most common EPA-registered household disinfectants, diluted household bleach solutions, and alcohol solutions with at least 70% alcohol will work.  See how to make a bleach solution if disinfectants are not available.	Reported illnesses have ranged from mild symptoms to severe illness and death for confirmed COVID-19 cases.  These symptoms may appear 2-- 14 days after exposure.	If you develop these emergency warning signs for COVID-19, get medical attention immediately.	Call your doctor or your County Health Department if you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 and develop a fever and symptoms, such as cough or difficulty breathing.	Tell them about your symptoms and your exposure.  They will decide whether you need to be tested.	Consult your health care provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.	What do I do if I'm sick?	If you think you may have been exposed to COVID-19 and show symptoms, contact your healthcare provider or County Health Department immediately.	There is no specific antiviral treatment recommended for COVID-19.	If you are sick with a fever )or cough, have trouble breathing, or suspect you have COVID-19, here's how to help prevent the disease from spreading to people in your home and community.	If you're mildly ill with COVID-19, isolate at home during the illness.  You should restrict activities outside your home, except for getting medical care.	Do not go to work, school or public areas.  Avoid using public transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis.	As much as possible, stay in a specific room and away from other people in your home.  Use a separate bathroom, if available.	Avoid all contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with COVID-19, just like you would around other people.	Why?  Although there have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus.  If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets and wear a facemask.	If you are sick, wear a facemask around other people.	Why?  When someone coughs or sneezes, they spray small liquid droplets from their nose or mouth, which may contain the virus.  If you are not able to wear a facemask ),then cover your coughs and sneezes.  People caring for you should wear a facemask around you.	If you are NOT sick, do not wear a facemask unless you are caring for someone who is sick.	)Why?  Facemasks may be in short supply, and they should be saved for caregivers and people who are sick.	What questions will a health care provider ask me when I call?	The Florida Department of Health follows CDC guidance on testing for COVID-19.  This means that when a person goes to their local health care provider they will be asked the following questions:	Did you have close contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 and are experiencing symptoms?	Are you located in an area where there is confirmed community spread?	Are you experiencing unexplained respiratory illness that requires hospitalization?	Have you traveled to or from an affected geographic area with community transmission in the last 14 days and have a fever or symptoms of lower respiratory illness?	If the answer is yes to any of those questions, that person will be tested.  Additionally, a person can be tested at the discretion of their local health care provider if they do not meet the above criteria.	The Florida Department of Health has three labs open in Jacksonville, Miami and Tampa that will continue to operate to provide results as quickly as possible.	What is COVID-19?	COVID-19 is caused by a previously unrecognized coronavirus, called COVID-19.For more information about COVID-19 please visit:	What is the status of the COVID-19 outbreak?  Am I at risk?	This is a rapidly evolving situation and the risk assessment can change daily.  For the latest global situation report please visit WHOs website.  The latest national situation summary updates are available on CDC's web page COVID-19.  For current information concerning Florida visit the Florida Department of Health website.	What are the symptoms and signs of COVID-19?	Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure.  Patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection have reportedly had mild to severe respiratory illness with symptoms of:	Read about COVID-19 Symptoms.	What is the Florida Department of Health doing to address COVID-19?	The Florida Department of Health is working with private and public partners to actively be involved in enhanced surveillance for respiratory illness that may be COVID-19.  Florida Department of Health Epidemiologists are partnering with providers to follow up on any suspected cases that meet criteria for COVID-19 to arrange for testing when needed and monitor contacts of any confirmed cases, if they occur.	The Florida Department of Health is communicating regularly with the public and health care providers with updates on COVID-19 and other respiratory illnesses.  The COVID-19 Call Center is available 24/7.	How many cases of COVID-19 have been reported to the Florida Department of Health?	To see the latest case count, please visit COVD-19 Case Count.	How does the virus spread?	This virus most likely originally emerged from an animal source and now appears to be spreading from person-to-person.  Currently, COVID-19 seems to be spreading easily and sustainably in the community ")in some affected geographic areas.  Community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.	Is COVID-19 the same as the MERS-CoV or SARS virus?	No.  Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people and others that circulate among animals, including camels, cats and bats.  The recently emerged COVID-19 is not the same as the coronavirus that causes Middle East Respiratory Syndrome )or the coronavirus that caused Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome )in 2003.  There are ongoing investigations to learn more.  This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available.	Should I be concerned about pets or other animals and COVID-19?	While this virus seems to have emerged from an animal source, it is now spreading from person-to-person.  The Florida Department of Health and CDC recommend that people traveling to China avoid animals both live and dead, but there is no reason to think that any animals or pets in the United States might be a source of infection with this new coronavirus.	How can I protect myself?	The best way to prevent illness from COVID-19 is to avoid being exposed to the virus and use good hand hygiene.  Common sense precautions that prevent the spread of flu will also help prevent the spread of COVID-19.  Please do the following:	Stay home if you are sick.	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Cover cough and sneeze.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom, before eating and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing.	If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.  Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )does not recommend that people who are well to wear a facemask to protect themselves from respiratory diseases, including COVID-19.  Facemasks should only be worn by persons who are sick or persons caring for them.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and hard surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.	If I were exposed to COVID-19, how long would it take for me to become sick?	The time between exposure to the COVID-19 virus and onset of symptoms is called the "incubation period."  The incubation period for COVID-19 is typically 2 to 14 days, although in some cases it may be longer.	What should I do if I think I )might have COVID-19?	If you are returning from an area with an outbreak of COVID-19 the CDC is recommending you self-quarantine for 14 days immediately upon returning from your travels, even if asymptomatic.  If you develop a fever and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or shortness of breath during those 14 days contact your health care professional and mention your recent travel.  Your provider will work with your county public health department to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.  If you have had close contact with someone showing these symptoms who has recently traveled from an impacted area, you should call a health care professional and mention your close contact and their recent travel.  For the most updated travel advisories regarding COVID-19, visit: U.S Travel Advisories and CDC Information for Travel.	What should I do if I had close contact with someone who has COVID-19?	There is information for people who have had close contact with a person confirmed to have, or being evaluated for, COVID-19 infection available online.	How do you test a person for COVID-19?	Your healthcare professional will work with your county health department to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.	A person who is tested will have three specimens taken: oral, nasal, and saliva.  The samples will be given to the county health department, who will then either ship or deliver them to the closest state laboratory.  If a specimen is tested positive, it will be identified as 'presumptive positive' until the result is confirmed at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.	)For more information on COVID-19 testing see CDC Tests for COVID-19.	Is there a vaccine?	Currently, there is no vaccine available to protect against COVID-19.	What are the treatments?	There is no specific antiviral treatment recommended for COVID-19 infection.  People infected with COVID-19 should receive supportive care to help relieve symptoms.	Learn about COVID-19 Treatment.	How long can COVID-19 survive in the environment?	The length of time that the virus survives likely depends on factors.  These factors could include the type of material or body fluid containing the virus and various environmental conditions such as temperature or humidity.  Researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other institutions are designing standardized experiments to measure how long COVID-19 can survive in situations that simulate natural environmental conditions.	Are there disinfectants available that can inactivate )COVID-19?	Right now, there are no disinfectant products registered by the U.S Environmental Protection Agency for use on environmental surfaces that are specifically listed as having the ability to kill COVID-19.  However, related viruses that have similar physical and biochemical properties can be killed with bleach, ammonia or alcohol, or cleaning agents containing any of these disinfectants.  Cleaning agents should be used according to the manufacturer's instructions.	For disinfection, a list of products with Environmental Protection Agency )-approved emerging viral pathogens claims, maintained by the American Chemistry Council Center for Biocide Chemistries ),is available at Novel Coronavirus )Fighting Products.  Always follow the manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products.	What about products imported from areas of outbreak?	There is still a lot that is unknown about the newly emerged COVID-19 and how it spreads.  In general, there is likely very low risk of spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient temperatures.  Coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread most often by respiratory droplets.  Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated with imported goods and there have not been any cases of COVID-19 in the United States associated with imported goods.	How do I determine to travel or not?	Current U.S Travel Advisories are available here: U.S Travel Advisories.	I have reviewed the CDC travel guidance and still do not believe it is safe to travel.  Can I get a refund for any planned travel?	Each company establishes its own refund policies, and any decision regarding refunds are between the traveler and the individual company.	Is it okay to have or go to large events?	No.  The state of Florida has issued an executive order, which will reduce density and crowds in restaurants, bars, nightclubs and beaches to mitigate the spread of COVID-19.  The following restrictions are listed under the executive order:	Restaurants are required to limit customer entry to 50 percent capacity.	Where can I get more information about COVID-19?	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and World Health Organization are excellent sources of information about this evolving outbreak.	You can access their websites here:	For Florida specific information, please consult The Florida Department of Health website: