	View Statewide Stay-Home Order here.	View Frequently Asked Questions on the order here.	View list of Essential Services and Businesses here.	May clergy or church members get together to stream or record religious services?	Yes.  The recording or streaming should be done by the minimum number of individuals necessary, following Social Distancing Requirements.  I am grateful to Idaho's religious leaders for caring for the spiritual needs of their congregations during this challenging time.	Is golf permitted under the self-isolation order?	Golf is an outdoor activity permitted by the self-isolation order, but it must be done in compliance with the Social Distancing Requirements.  Golf courses and golfers should use the following recommendations:	No congregating of people whatsoever --courses should take all steps necessary to prevent congregating including removing chairs and tables, putting up signs )and dispersing any groups that form.	Clubhouse, restaurant and bar remain closed --no indoor services, food, etc.	Course must thoroughly clean, with disinfectant, all carts and equipment before and after each use.	No more than one person in a cart except for members of the same household.	Take steps to avoid removing the pin from the hole, or share clubs or equipment, etc.	Are logging, forestry, wood products manufacturing, and paper manufacturing businesses considered essential infrastructure and allowed to continue?	Yes.  The Order to Self-Isolate for the State of Idaho specifically incorporates by reference CISA Guidance issued by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the United States Homeland Security on March 19, 2020.  The CISA Guidance includes "workers who support the manufacture and distribution of forest products, including, but not limited to timber, paper and other wood products."	Can car dealerships continue to operate under the stay-home order?	The order specifically allows "auto-supply, auto-repair, and related facilities."  Automobile sales should be allowed but must be done in compliance with the Social Distancing Requirements, and avoiding causing congregation of people.	Can non-residents recreate in Idaho, and can Idahoans recreate across the state?	Yes, but those considering doing so should consider carefully before traveling outside of your home county.  The order allows individuals to "engage in outdoor activity" which includes but is not limited to walking, hiking, bicycling, or running.  However, people recreating should follow these recommendations:	Day trips near your home are strongly encouraged --such as hiking and biking.  Minimize your travel distance from your home and spread out.  If a trailhead is congested, consider finding another trail or going during off-peak hours.	Check before you go.  Many campgrounds and trails may be closed.  If you are going hunting or fishing, make sure to check Idaho Department of Fish and Game's Seasons and Rules.	Bring all supplies you will need from home to avoid putting unnecessary strain on local grocery stores or convenient stores that serve the local population.  Make sure you pack out all your trash and leave your space clean.	Are hotels allowed to continue to operate?	Yes, but for limited purposes.  The Order allows for "Hotels, motels, shared rental units, and similar facilities for purposes of housing, or to quarantine, those individuals exempted [within the Order]."	Can real estate appraisers continue to do appraisals?	Yes.  Social Distancing Requirements apply and should be followed carefully.	Are public meetings prohibited?  Can I attend public meetings telephonically?	Public meetings are allowed, but must be done telephonically in a way that allows the public to attend the meeting by phone or other telecommunication method.  )All requirements of the Open Meetings Law continue to apply with the exception of the requirement to provide an in-person venue to attend the meeting.	What is the most important thing for Idahoans to do at this time?	Be aware of the rapidly changing nature of the pandemic and do your part to stay current on the latest recommendations from public health officials.  Frequently check this website as well as the websites for the local public health districts for the latest Idaho-specific information and follow the recommendations of local officials to the best of your ability.	Help stop the spread of germs by washing your hands frequently, avoiding touching your face when out in public, trying to keep a distance of at least 6 feet from people who appear to have respiratory illness, covering your cough or sneeze if you are sick, and staying home when you are sick.	Be aware that there are other, common human coronaviruses that cause respiratory disease.  These are not the same virus that causes COVID-19.	Follow public health travel recommendations to avoid unnecessary risk; these are available on the CDC web site here.	It is currently flu and respiratory disease season; we recommend getting a flu vaccine to stay as healthy as possible.	If you or someone you know may have been exposed to the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19, call your medical provider to determine next steps.	Idahoans are encouraged to:	Take advantage of the many drive-thru, pickup, or delivery options for food.  Businesses are stepping up to make these options even more available than before, in order to serve customers and keep people working.	Should I get tested for the novel coronavirus?	)It is still cold and flu season, and you do not need to seek medical attention for a mild respiratory illness such as a cold.  However, if you have had close contact with a person with known novel coronavirus or have recently traveled to an area with ongoing spread and you develop fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, call your healthcare provider and ask for instructions about how to seek care.	At this time, the CDC doesn't recommend testing of people who do not have symptoms.  Because of the limited number of tests, there is a need to preserve them for the sickest and those with the highest risk of infection.	What is the process for testing novel coronavirus?	)Testing for the novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is being done on a patient-by-patient basis.  Epidemiologists at the state and at local public health districts are in consultation with healthcare providers and will facilitate testing at the state lab for high-risk patients.  Since influenza is still widely circulating and has similar symptoms, rapid flu tests will generally be recommended to rule out flu before proceeding with coronavirus testing.	The state lab is receiving samples Monday through Saturday from 8 a.m to 5 p.m until further notice, so tests can be run as quickly and efficiently as possible.	In addition, some private regional labs are also accepting Idaho samples for testing.  There may be a cost associated with this testing.  Labs will report their results to the state, and those numbers will be posted on this website each day.  It is normal for test results to take 2-5 days to be delivered to the healthcare provider who ordered the testing.	What are the symptoms of novel coronavirus?  )How long do they take to appear after exposure?	Experts believe symptoms of COVID-19 can include fever, cough, and shortness of breath and may appear 2-14 days after exposure.	What is the likelihood that I, or someone in my family, could be exposed to the novel coronavirus?	)It's important to remember that most people )infected with the virus that causes COVID-19 will have mild illness.  A much smaller group of people --mostly those who are older and are medically fragile or have underlying health conditions --may have more severe illness.	When will a vaccine be available?	This will be a brand-new vaccine.  Currently, federal health officials estimate that it will be about a year before a vaccine is available.	How should households with confirmed coronavirus cases handle household waste?	In order to protect sanitation workers, households with residents infected or suspected to be infected with COVID-19 should carefully and tightly enclose any waste that may be contaminated with the virus in appropriate bags, consider double-bagging the waste, and ensure that curbside containers are not overfilled so the lids can close completely.  Wash your hands thoroughly after handling any COVID-19 waste.  More information is available on the Idaho DEQ web site here.	Can my dog or cat become sick with COVID-19?	The CDC has not received any reports about pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19.  Nevertheless, it is recommended that people who are sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known.  If no one else can care for your pet while you are sick, you should wash your hands before and after you interact with your animal and wear a facemask.  For more information click here.	What is Idaho doing to monitor the coronavirus risk?	Idaho Public Health officials are monitoring the rapidly changing novel coronavirus situation very closely, domestically and internationally.  We are working with the Governor's Office and other state agencies including the Idaho Office of Emergency Management, local public health districts, and healthcare providers around the state, as well as CDC and other states and are working to contain the spread of COVID-19.	Additionally, Gov Brad Little has launched a new Coronavirus Working Group dedicated to supporting Idaho's public health agencies and increasing coordination and communication around the multiple aspects of the planning and response effort.	This website is the best source for Idaho-specific information about the novel coronavirus response.	If you have additional questions, please visit the Contact Us page of this website.	Idaho Gov Brad Little and the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare issued a statewide Stay-Home Order on Wednesday, March 25, for all Idahoans.	View Statewide Stay-Home Order here.	View list of Essential Services and Businesses here.	View Additional Guidance on the order here.	How long will the order last?	The order covers the entire state and begins immediately.  It will last for at least 21 days.  Gov Little and public health officials will reassess the statewide situation before the end of the 21-day period to determine what happens next.	What can I do?  What's open?	Essential state and local government functions will also remain open, including law enforcement and offices that provide government programs and services.	Can the order be changed?	Yes.  As the situation changes and more information is available, the Governor and public health officials can issue new orders and directives as needed.	How does this order interact with local orders already in place?	This is a statewide order, but cities, counties and local public health districts may enact more stringent measures.	If I don't get a paycheck, I won't be able to buy groceries or pay rent.  Are there services to help me?	Yes.  You may be eligible for public assistance for food, medical care, rent, and more.  Please call 1-877-456-1233 or visit to apply.	Can I get groceries?  Repair a plumbing issue?  Shop for shoes?  What is considered "essential travel?"	Yes, yes, and no, unless you are shopping online for shoes.  All residents of Idaho must self-isolate and work from home as much as possible, unless you work in healthcare, public safety, or an identified "essential business" as defined in the order.	Will restaurants be open even if my community has not restricted them to delivery, takeout, or drive-thru services?	All restaurant dining rooms will be closed.  Check restaurant websites for information on delivery, takeout, and drive-thru services.	Will public transportation be available, like buses?	Only to those who need transportation to provide or obtain essential services.	Do I have to stay home and inside, or can I go outside for exercise and recreation?	Outdoor activity near your home is OK, but you should keep a distance of 6 feet from people outside of your household.  Social distancing requirements are in effect on paths, trails, sidewalks, riverbanks, beaches, parks, and anyplace outside on private or public property where people might gather.  Crowds are a no-no.	Can I drive to a mountain town like McCall or Stanley?  There aren't many people in those communities, so social distancing should be easier.	Generally, no.  The point of the order is to keep people home and slow the spread of COVID-19.  All non-essential travel must be avoided.  Please stay home so you don't overwhelm the limited resources in small towns and communities who are also staying home to slow the spread.	What if I want to have a birthday party for my child?	Consider having it online or postponing it until the order has been lifted.  Non-essential gatherings of any number of people should be avoided.	Do I need to pay my taxes?	Yes, state and federal deadlines have been extended.  All state taxes are now due on June 15.  Federal taxes are due by July 15.	Who will enforce the order?  Can I get a ticket if I'm out for non-essential reasons?	State and local law enforcement will enforce, but they are taking an educational approach with citizens.	How do I report individuals not following the order?	If you believe someone is violating the Stay at Home order, report it to the local authorities.  That may be city police, county sheriff, or Idaho State Police depending on the circumstances.  The Governor, the Department of Health & Welfare, and the Attorney General's Office do not have enforcement authority under the statutes authorizing the order or under the order itself.	Can I still go out to pick up my prescription?	Yes.  You may leave your home to visit a pharmacy.	Can I leave home to care for my elderly parents or friends?  Or a family member or friend who has disabilities?	Yes.  Be sure to follow social distancing guidelines to protect them and you.  If you are sick with any respiratory illness, stay home and find someone else to help care for them.	Can I visit loved ones in the hospital, nursing home, skilled nursing facility, or other residential care facility?	Generally, no.  This is difficult but necessary to protect facility staff and other patients.  There are limited exceptions, such as if you are going to the hospital with someone younger than 18 or who is developmentally disabled and needs assistance.  For most other situations, the order prohibits visitation to these kinds of facilities except at the end-of-life.	Gas prices, milk prices, and water prices appear to have gotten out of control at my local grocery store.  How can I be sure that this isn't price gouging?	Concerns about price gouging should be reported to the Office of the Attorney General's Consumer Protection Division.  Complaints can be filed online here.	Consumers may also contact the Consumer Protection Division at or by calling )or 334-2424 )to obtain information about price gouging and other consumer matters.	Under Idaho Code §48-603( ),price gouging investigations by the Attorney General are limited to fuel, food, pharmaceuticals and water for human consumption.  If your complaint falls outside of these categories, the Attorney General lacks the legal authority to investigate.	Does the Governor have the authority to issue a Stay at Home order?	Yes.  The Governor is the Commander of the Militia under Article IV, §4 and Supreme Executive Power is vested within the Governor under Article IV, §5 of the Idaho Constitution.  This authority is codified throughout Idaho Law.  The authority to issue orders such as the Stay at Home Order is found within Chapter 6, Title 46 of the Idaho Code.  Additional authority is found within Chapter 10, Title 46.  The specific statutes granting the Governor authority to issue such an order are Idaho Code §46-601 and Idaho Code §46-1008.  It is important to note that both the Director of the Department of Health and Welfare and local public health districts have authority to issue orders of quarantine and isolation.  Idaho Code §§56-1003( )& 39-415.  )The current order is an exercise of the combined authority of the Governor and the Director of the Department of Health Welfare.  Violation of this order could be a misdemeanor.  Idaho Code §56-1003(.	)Are Idaho units of government still required to follow Idaho's Open Meetings Law?	Yes.  Government is still required to follow the Idaho Open Meetings Law.  Notices and agendas should be posted in compliance with the law.  In a recent proclamation, the Governor only suspended the "in-person" attendance requirement-- but only if the governmental entity can ensure that the public has the opportunity to either listen in via teleconference, observe and listen through streaming, or attend via other online platforms.  If the system for observing and listening is not functioning, government should postpone the meeting until the system is working.  Additionally, there is no authorization within the law for the conduct of meetings or votes within boards by e-mail.  Government should comply with the Open Meetings Law throughout the application of the Governor's orders.	Many Idahoans are asking about medications that can potentially treat or prevent COVID-19.  At this time, there are no medications that can effectively treat or prevent COVID-19.	Two medicines, chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, are being studied in several countries, including in the United States.  Preliminary data, mostly in lab studies, suggests they might help, but these medicines require further testing in people before being determined safe for the public.  Both of these medicines can have major side effects, including eye damage and heart problems, and may interact adversely with other commonly used medicines.  Even with additional testing, both medicines require medical experts to monitor patients for safety.	Clinicians typically prescribe chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of malaria and autoimmune disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis.	Another drug, azithromycin, which providers commonly prescribe as a "Z-pack" to treat certain infections, has also received mentions in the news as a potential treatment for COVID-19.  The amount of scientific data to support azithromycin's potential benefit for COVID-19 is more limited than chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine.  The use of azithromycin combined with either chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine increases the risk of severe side effects.	Given the very limited data on the use of these medicines --chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin --for COVID-19, known safety issues, and the need to ensure these medicines are available for patients that need them for malaria and autoimmune diseases, taking these medications for COVID-19 is not recommended outside of clinical trials or when prescribed by and under the supervision of your healthcare provider and always according to the instructions provided.	The Idaho Board of Pharmacy has established new rules to prevent hoarding and over-prescribing of these medicines for patients who do not have medical reasons to take them.  More information on the Idaho Board of Pharmacy rules can be found on FAQ for COVID-19 Declaration of Emergency and Rule 704 Medication Limitations addition, FDA and DEA updates.	Information on these and other medicines under investigation for COVID-19 can also be found on the CDC's website for Interim Guidance for Management of Patients with Confirmed Coronavirus Disease.	)Local public health districts may be announcing cases of COVID-19 that are not reflected in the state's numbers at.	The state case counts are based on records submitted to the state by the local public health districts through Idaho's statewide disease tracking system.  The state does not count cases of disease the local public health districts have not yet determined to be confirmed though investigations and submitted to the state.  This is standard practice for all communicable diseases and done, in part, to ensure we count cases only among Idaho residents.  The state of residence may not be immediately clear, for example, if someone who is a resident of another state becomes sick in Idaho and gets tested in Idaho.	This is a nationwide practice for assigning cases that has been agreed upon by all 50 states and U.S territories since 2003 to ensure accurate state and national case counts.  When a disease is diagnosed in an out of state resident, state-level epidemiologists contact the person's state of residence to ensure they know about the case and collaborate on the investigation since it is possible that people in both states may have been exposed.	The local public health districts may be announcing cases of COVID-19 among people who were tested in their communities before they have been submitted to the state as a confirmed case out of an abundance of caution and to communicate that people in Idaho might have been exposed.	If you have questions about cases in a specific public health district, please refer to that health district.	People may be experiencing stress, fear, and anxiety about the novel coronavirus outbreak.  There are many ways to take care of yourself and support your loved ones during times of stress and worry.	Resources and information on coping with the emotional impacts of the outbreak are available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration ),and are available on the CDC website.	For people experiencing emotional distress related to a disaster, SAMHSA offers toll-free crisis counseling and support through the Disaster Distress Helpline by calling or texting "TalkWithUs."	The Idaho Suicide Prevention Hotline )answers phone calls 24 hours per day, 7 days per week at or.  ISPH provides crisis chat response at and crisis text response at from 3pm to midnight, Monday-Friday.	When you're isolated at home, feelings of anxiety, loneliness, or worry may become overwhelming.  Experiencing these feeling is common during times of heightened stress.	Don't be afraid to reach out.  We're here to help!	The Department of Health and Welfare has opened an Idaho COVID-19 Hotline with an option for behavioral health.	We offer anonymous and confidential assistance for all, no matter your situation.	If you are experiencing any type of distress from feeling overwhelmed or isolated, a mental health challenge, substance use disorder, or if you are seeking resources during this difficult time, please reach out!	We have trained professionals ready and available to talk with you and assist you in accessing the mental health and substance use disorder services you need.