	There is an expanding global outbreak of a respiratory illness caused by a novel )coronavirus.  The disease the virus causes has been named COVID-19.  While most COVID-19 cases were initially associated with travel, person-to-person spread is now being reported in other places, including Iowa.	IDPH and its public and private partners continue to respond to COVID-19.  It is important for Iowans to be aware of how to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in their community.	It is normal to be concerned about a new virus.	Being uncertain and anxious about COVID-19 is normal, especially with reports of illness and death.	For the most current information from the CDC, click here.	What is Self Isolation?	It is recommended that Iowans self-isolate for 14 days in the following situations:	If you have traveled outside of Iowa for business or vacation in the last 14 days.	If you have been on an international cruise in the last 14 days.	If you live with someone who has symptoms of COVID-19 or has tested positive for COVID-19.	What does self-isolation mean?	Stay home and do not go to school, public areas or attend gatherings.	Do not use public transportation, ride sharing ortaxis.	Postpone all travel.	Wash your hands often and practice good hygiene.	Postpone all non-essential medical appointments until you have completed your 14 days of self-isolation.  If you have an essential medical appointment during this time, please work with your healthcare provider and local public health professionals as needed to help coordinate the visit.	What should I be watching for during self-isolation?	Take your temperature twice a day.  Watch for a fever.	Watch for cough or difficulty breathing.	What about the people I live with?	Family members or other persons who reside in your home may remain in your home, but you should stay in a specific room away from others in your home and use a separate bathroom.  )As long as you remain healthy, the other persons in your home can go about their daily activities as normal.	)You should not have direct contact with any animals )out of an abundance of caution.  Arrange for your pets to be cared for and housed outside of your home, if possible.	What should I do if I develop a fever, cough or have difficulty breathing?	Sick Iowans must stay home and isolate themselves from others in their house.  Approximately 80% of Iowans infected with COVID-19 will experience only a mild to moderate illness.  Most mildly ill Iowans do not need to go to their healthcare provider or be tested to confirm they have COVID-19.	If you are sick, stay home until: at least 7 days have passed since your symptoms first appeared.	If you think you may need healthcare, call first.  Your provider can assess whether you need to be seen in the office or if you can recover at home.  Also, there may be options for you to talk to a medical provider from home using technology.		)Facts not fear:	It's important to protect yourself and your loved ones against all viruses, including COVID-19 by frequently washing your hands for 20 seconds, staying home when you are sick, and covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue or your elbow/upper arm.	Stay calm:	It's important to not pass along or spread misinformation.  Recognize when other people's fears and anxieties are influencing your own emotional or mental health.  When we integrate other's fears and anxieties into our own emotional or mental state, we act and make decisions out of fear, rather than facts.	Keep up-to-date:	For topics that cause significant anxiety, people find themselves better able to cope if they feel knowledgeable about the topic.  Use trusted resources, such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )and the Iowa Department of Public Health.	)Unplug:	Information, real or fake, is a constant in today's society.  It is important to have the facts and stay up-to-date, but when information creates a barrier to daily functioning, it can increase fear and anxiety.  Be aware of how plugged in you are and to what you are exposing yourself.	Prioritize good sleep, exercise and healthy eating choices:	Stress affects your immune system response.  Make a list of priorities and include commitments to 8 hours of sleep, adequate exercise and healthy eating choices.	Focus on Preparedness:	Be informed; be educated.  One way to address anxiety is to focus on the circumstances you can control.  Taking efforts to control what you can, like washing your hands and other prevention strategies, will help to lessen the stress caused by the fear of the unknown.  Both the CDC and IDPH websites have resources on prevention and preparedness.	When do you need help?	When symptoms associated with your anxiety have affected your ability to function in some part of your life, it is time to reach out.  Does worry cause you to lose sleep or does the fear of becoming sick cause you to isolate?  Reach out to your healthcare provider and discuss your concerns.  If you or a loved one are facing problems with alcohol, drugs, gambling, mental health or suicidal thoughts, contact Your Life Iowa by live chat, text or phone.	2019 novel coronavirus )is a new kind of coronavirus that was first detected in China and has now been detected in many countries, including in the United States and in Iowa.	There are seven different coronaviruses known to infect humans, including four very common, more mild viruses that cause illness similar to the common cold.  Healthcare providers test for these common coronaviruses routinely and no public health measures are needed to address these common coronaviruses.  Three of the seven coronaviruses are rare and can cause more severe illness, including the 2019 novel coronavirus.	)Symptoms:	Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure and can include:Reported illnesses have ranged from people being mildly sick to people being severely ill and dying.  Older patients and those with chronic medical conditions may be at higher risk for severe illness.	There is currently no specific treatment for COVID-19.  People with COVID-19 receive supportive care to help relieve symptoms.	More testing is becoming available each day through the State Hygienic Laboratory )and through private labs.  Your health care provider will make the determination on whether you need a test, and can consult with public health if they have questions.	Testing guidance is available here:	Additional testing resources here:	The virus is spread mainly from person-to-person between people who are in close contact with one another.  )Spread occurs from respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes that land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.  It may be possible to get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	CDC has issued travel warnings for some affected countries, with warning levels varying based on the risk to travelers.  The Iowa Department of Public Health recommends that Iowans who have returned from traveling outside the state for business or vacation in the last 14 days voluntarily self-isolate for 14 days following their return and monitor for fever and other symptoms.	Individuals who have cleared their 14 day self-isolation or public health monitoring are not at risk for spreading COVID-19.	There is currently no vaccine to prevent coronavirus disease 2019.  )The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to this virus.  People can help prevent the spread of respiratory illnesses to others by covering their coughs and sneezes, cleaning their hands frequently, and staying home when ill.  CDC does not recommend face masks for the general public.