	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )and the Louisiana Office of Public Health continue to closely monitor this outbreak.	All information on this website reflects the most current information provided to the State.  It is subject to change based on further investigations, and will be updated accordingly.	Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people and others that circulate among animals, including camels, cats and bats.  Rarely, animal coronaviruses can evolve and infect people and then spread between people such as has been seen with recent outbreaks of MERS and SARS.	To minimize the risk of spread, Louisiana officials are advising the public to practice social distancing by not gathering with large groups of people.  Large events and mass gatherings can contribute to the spread of COVID-19 in Louisiana and introduce the virus to new communities.	Governor John Bel Edwards has issued a stay at home order for Louisiana residents.  Click here to read the full order.	Stay home unless it is necessary to go to work or get necessities.	Cover your cough.	Wash your hands.	For a list of additional guidance for the public click here.	If you have questions about coronavirus, please contact the Louisiana 211 Network by dialing dial 211.  Or, you can text the keyword LACOVID to for the most current information about the outbreak as it becomes available.	Trained counselors available 24/7.  All calls are confidential.	For confirmed infections, reported illnesses have ranged from infected people with little to no symptoms )to people being severely ill and dying.  Symptoms can include:CDC believes at this time that symptoms of COVID-19 may appear in as few as 2 days or as long as 14 after exposure.	There is no specific antiviral treatment recommended for COVID-19 infection.  People infected with COVID-19 should receive supportive care to help relieve symptoms.	Health experts are still learning the details about how this new coronavirus spreads.  Other coronaviruses spread from an infected person to others through:	What is a coronavirus?	Coronavirus is type of virus that causes diseases of varying severities, ranging from the common cold to more serious respiratory disease.  A novel )coronavirus is a new strain of coronavirus that hasn' t been identified before in humans.	Who gets coronavirus?	Coronaviruses are normally found in animals but can be spread to humans.  Some coronaviruses are also spread from person to person.  Recently, thousands of cases of pneumonia associated with a novel coronavirus in China have been identified, along with some in the United States.	How is coronavirus spread7 Human coronaviruses most commonly spread from an infected person to others through:	Novel coronavirus is new, and we are learning more each day about transmission patterns and incubation periods.  As information becomes available, we will keep you informed.	People who have traveled to China since December 1, 2019, could have been exposed to the virus.  People should seek medical care if they have traveled to China and develop a fever or respiratory symptoms within 14 days of return.  People who have been in close contact with a person who has a confirmed case of novel coronavirus should seek medical care if they develop fever or respiratory symptoms.	What are the symptoms of the disease?	Symptoms can include:Complications and outcomes of this virus are still being investigated.	How is novel coronavirus a threat?	There is no specific treatment for illness caused by novel coronavirus.  However, many of the symptoms can be treated.  Treatment will be based on the patient's condition.  There is no vaccine for novel coronavirus.	How can first responders protect themselves from infection?	Routine exposure control precautions as with any respiratory illness ..)will protect EMS providers.  This includes: Obtain an illness and travel history to determine if there has been any travel to areas impacted or close proximity to someone confirmed sick with the virus.  As with the flu and other respiratory illness, place a surgical mask on the patient if tolerated.	If travel history or risk factors warrant, then the crew should initiate standard contact/airborne/droplet precautions.  )Also use caution with aerosol generating procedures.	.).Notify Hospital ED that a potentially infectious patient is enroute.	Properly donn/doff/dispose of PPE.	Disinfect equipment and unit as per established protocols.	Since there are cases in the United States, what can I do to protect myself?	Based on current information, even though there are cases in the United States and there are likely to be addtional cases, the risk of transmission of coronavirus in Louisiana remains low.  People should continue to engage in their regular activities if they are not ill.  As with other respiratory illnesses, there are steps that everyone can take to reduce the risk of getting sick from circulating viruses.  This includes remaining home when ill, washing hands with soap and water frequently, covering coughs and sneezes and get your flu shot.	Am I at risk if I go to a funeral or visitation service for someone who died of COVID-19?	There is currently no known risk associated with being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with the body of someone who died of COVID-19.	Per the Governor's stay-at-home order, funerals cannot exceed 10 people while the order is in place.	Am I at risk if I touch someone who died of COVID-19 after they have passed away?	COVID-19 is a new disease and we are still learning how it spreads.  The virus that causes COVID-19 is thought to mainly spread from close contact )with a person who is currently sick with COVID-19.  The virus likely spreads primarily through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes, similar to how influenza and other respiratory infections spread.  These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.  This type of spread is not a concern after death.	It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	People should consider not touching the body of someone who has died of COVID-19.	Older people and people of all ages with severe underlying health conditions are at higher risk of developing serious COVID-19 illness.  There may be less of a chance of the virus spreading from certain types of touching, such as holding the hand or hugging after the body has been prepared for viewing.  Other activities, such as kissing, washing and shrouding should be avoided before, during and after the body has been prepared, if possible.  If washing the body or shrouding are important religious or cultural practices, families are encouraged to work with their community cultural and religious leaders and funeral home staff on how to reduce their exposure as much as possible.  At a minimum, people conducting these activities should wear disposable gloves.  If splashing of fluids is expected, additional personal protective equipment )may be required.	)Cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products.  )Choose products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims.  After removal of PPE, wash hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or us an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water are not available.  Soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled.	What do funeral home workers need to know about handling decedents who had COVID-19?	A funeral or visitation service can be held for a person who has died of COVID-19.	Funeral home workers should follow their routine infection prevention and control precautions when handling a decedent who died of COVID-19.  If it is necessary to transfer a body to a bag, follow standard precautions, including additional PPE if splashing of fluids is expected.  For transporting a body after the body has been bagged, disinfect the outside of the bag with a product with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to-kill viruses.  Follow the manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products.  )Wear disposable nitrile gloves when handling the body bag.	Embalming can be conducted.  During embalming, follow standard precautions including the use of additional PPE if splashing is expected.  )Wear appropriate respiratory protection if any procedures will generate aerosols or if required for chemicals used in accordance with the manufacturer's label.  Wear heavy-duty gloves over nitrile disposable gloves if there is a risk of cuts, puncture wounds or other injuries that break the skin.  Additional information on how to safely conduct aerosol-generating procedures is in the CDC's Postmortem Guidance.  Cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.  Products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims are expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder-to-kill viruses.  Follow the manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products.	)After cleaning and removal of PPE, perform hand hygiene by washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water is not available.  Soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled.	Decedents with COVID-19 can be buried or cremated, but check for any additional state and local requirements that may dictate the handling and disposition of the remains of individuals who have died of certain infectious diseases.	What should I do if my family member died from COVID-19 while overseas?  ·When a U.S citizen dies outside the United States, the deceased person's next of kin or legal representative should notify U.S consular officials at the Department of State.	Consular personnel are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide assistance to U.S citizens for overseas emergencies.	If a family member, domestic partner or legal representative is in a different country from the deceased person, he or she should call the Department of State's Office of Overseas Citizens Services in Washington, D.C from 8 a.m to 5 p.m Eastern time, Monday through Friday, at or.	o For emergency assistance after working hours or on weekends and holidays, call the Department of State switchboard at and ask to speak with the Overseas Citizens Services duty officer.	In addition, the U.S embassy closest to or in the country where the U.S citizen died can provide assistance.	My family member died of COVID-19 while overseas.  What are the requirements for returning the body to the United States?	CDC does not require an autopsy before the remains of a person who died overseas are returned to the United States.  Depending on the circumstances surrounding the death, some countries may require an autopsy.  Sources of support to the family include the local consulate or embassy, travel insurance provider, tour operator, faith-based and aid organizations, and the deceased's employer.  There likely will need to be an official identification of the body and official documents issued by the consular office.	CDC requirements for importing human remains depend upon if the body has been embalmed, cremated or if the person died from a quarantinable communicable disease.	At this time, COVID-19 is a quarantinable communicable disease in the United States and the remains must meet the standards for importation found in 42 Code of Federal Regulations Part 71.55 and may be cleared, released and authorized for entry into the United States only under the following conditions: The remains are accompanied by a permit issued by the CDC Director.  The CDC permit )must accompany the human remains at all times during shipment.	Permits for the importation of the remains of a person known or suspected to have died from a quarantinable communicable disease may be obtained through the CDC Division of Global Migration and Quarantine by calling the CDC Emergency Operations Center at or emailing.	Please see CDC's guidance for additional information.	This checklist will help you take steps to lessen the impact of a pandemic on you and your family.  Many of these steps are good advice during any disaster, including a flood or tornado.	Prepare to get by for at least a week on what you have at home.  When ill or sheltered in place you may be unable to get to a store, or stores may not be open or may have limited supplies for weeks.  Public services may also be disrupted, so be prepared with extra supplies of essential items such as nonperishable food and batteries.  They can be useful in other types of emergencies, such as power outages and natural disasters.	Prepare for possible changes in healthcare.  For example, medical advice and healthcare may be more difficult to obtain during a pandemic and healthcare providers and medical facilities may be overwhelmed.  There may not be enough medical supplies, healthcare providers and hospital beds for all people who are ill.	Decisions about who receives medical care and how much treatment can be administered might become a likelihood.  Talk about these possibilities with your family and loved ones.	In a pandemic, you may be advised to stay away from others and from public places as much as possible.  Plan to limit the number of trips you take to shop or run errands.  Also, remember public transportation routes and times may be limited.	Think about how you would care for people in your family who have disabilities or limitations if support services are not available.	Decide who will take care of children if schools are closed.	For general preparedness, agree on a point of contact where all family members can check in if you are separated during any emergency.	Get an extra supply of your regular prescription drugs.  Ask your healthcare provider for a prescription.  If your insurance will not agree to cover the extra supply, you may need to pay out of pocket.  Keep health supplies and nonprescription drugs on hand.	Staying at home from work when you are sick is the most important thing you can do to protect others.	Ask your employer or union about sick leave and policies about absences, time off and teleworking.	Every business, organization and agency should have a plan to ensure essential work can get done if large numbers of employees are absent over many months.  You may be asked to perform duties that are not typically part of your job.	Find ways to reduce personal contact, such as increased use of emails or phone conferences.  Plan to work from home whenever possible.  Be sure you can access your electronic documents.	Talk with family, friends and neighbors to make sure everyone is prepared.  Be ready to help neighbors who are elderly or have special needs if services they depend on are not available.	Know policies about illness and being absent.  Be prepared for school closures.	Assist with planning for emergency response to disasters and pandemics.	Stay home from work and school when you are sick.	Stay away from others as much as possible when they are sick.	Wash hands frequently.  Use soap and water or an alcohol-based hand cleaner.	Cover your mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing.  Try using the crook of your elbow or your shoulder for cover, instead of hands.	Throw away used tissues right away.  If you use tissues to cover your cough or blow your nose, dispose of them in the nearest waste bin immediately after use, then wash hands.	Set an example for your children.  Show them how to limit the spread of viruses and germs.