	What does a presumptive positive case mean?	A presumptive positive result is when a patient tests positive at a state, reference, or commercial laboratory.  The test must be confirmed at Maine Health and Environmental Testing Laboratory or at US CDC.	What is community spread?	Community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.	What information will Maine CDC release about any presumptive or confirmed cases?	Maine CDC will release the following information: gender, age range, county of residence, and test status.  Maine CDC will not release additional personal information about presumptive or confirmed cases.  Maine CDC conducts investigations for all presumptive and confirmed cases.  Any potential contacts will be contacted.	I think I had contact with a presumptive or confirmed positive case.  What should I do?	If you had close contact )with a person who tested positive for COVID-19 while they were symptomatic or within 48 hours before their symptoms started:	You need to quarantine at home for 14 days.  Take your temperature 2x per day and monitor for fever, cough, or difficulty breathing.	You can have contact with people in your household and they can continue to leave home as long as you are not symptomatic.	If you had contact )with a person who has tested positive for COVID-19 while they were symptomatic or within 48 hours before their symptoms started:	No quarantine is recommended.  Monitor for symptoms for 14 days and contact healthcare provider if symptoms develop.	If you have been in the same room )at the same time as a person who tested positive:	No quarantine is recommended.  Monitor yourself for symptoms for 14 days and contact a healthcare provider if symptoms develop.	If you have been in a room at a different time than a person who tested positive:	No action is needed.  You are not considered a contact.	If you have had contact with someone who has been in contact )with a person who has tested positive:	No action is needed.	You can monitor yourself for symptoms and contact a healthcare provider if symptoms develop.	How can a person be released from isolation at home?	Self-isolate until:		At least 3 days )have passed since recovery )and respiratory symptoms have improved.	All close contacts without symptoms of a person who has tested positive for COVID-19 should stay home )for 14 days from the time of their last exposure.	Self-isolate until:		At least 3 days )have passed since recovery.																																			)If symptoms develop, contact your healthcare provider BEFORE going to the office.	Stay home if possible and avoid close contact with other people.	Is there a requirement for businesses to close?	All restaurants and bars in the state are mandated to close to dine-in customers starting March 18 at 6pm for a period of 14 days.	)Take-out, delivery, and drive-through options can continue during this time, though Governor Mills urges these services to minimize gathering of customers.	Governor Mills urges Maine people to continue to support establishments by purchasing takeout meals, buying gift cards, or other measures of support.	Governor Mills strongly recommends that non-essential public-facing businesses, such as gyms, hair salons, theaters, casinos, shopping malls, etc also close for these two weeks )to minimize public gatherings.	This does not include businesses that provide essential services, including but not limited to:	food processing, agriculture, industrial manufacturing, construction, trash collection, grocery and household goods ),home repair and hardware and auto repair, pharmacy and other medical facilities, biomedical and health care, child care, post offices and shipping outlets, insurance, banks, gas stations, laundromats, veterinary clinics and animal feed and supply stores, shipping stores, public transportation, and hotel and commercial lodging.	Implement social distancing measures and be thoughtful about need to visit these businesses during this time.	Other businesses are encouraged to have employees work remotely or implement social distancing measures if this is not possible, including: legal services, business and management consulting, professional services and insurance services, etc.	How can I protect myself?	The best way to prevent infection is to avoid being exposed to this virus.  People should avoid travel to affected areas, practice social distancing, and follow general respiratory prevention measures:	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.This is especially important after using the bathroom, before eating, and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.  If soap and water is not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid touching high-touch surfaces in public.	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze into a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.	Stay home when you are sick.	Should I wear a mask to protect myself from COVID-19?  What about while flying?	No, unless you are sick.  U.S CDC does not recommend the use of face masks for healthy individuals to prevent COVID-19.  Surgical masks are meant to protect sick individuals from infecting others.	You should only wear a mask if a healthcare professional recommends it.	The best way to prevent infection with COVID-19 is to avoid exposure to the virus.  Practice general respiratory prevention measures.	Should I buy N95 respirator masks to protect myself from COVID-19?	For most Americans, practicing general respiratory prevention measures is the best way to prevent infection with the COVID-19 virus.	N95 respirator masks should be reserved for people at high risk of exposure to the COVID-19 virus, especially people who work in healthcare settings.	I cannot find facemasks or other personal protective equipment )anywhere.  Can Maine CDC help?	Maine CDC is not able to provide personal protective equipment to members of the public or assist in helping members of the public find sources for personal protective equipment.	If you are sick, contact your healthcare provider for assistance in finding facemasks and other equipment.	If you are not sick, there is no recommendation for wearing facemasks or other PPE.  Practice general respiratory prevention measures.	Healthcare facilities should follow US CDC's strategies for optimizing the supply of PPE.	Are there any cleaning recommendations to prevent COVID-19?	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces )daily using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.	Consult this list of EPA-approved products for emerging viral pathogens for recommendations.	Find cleaning recommendations for households with suspected/confirmed COVID-19 cases here.	)What type of hand sanitizer should I be using?	Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60 percent to 95 percent alcohol.	If soap and water are readily available, wash hands instead of using alcohol-based hand sanitizer.	What is social distancing?	Social distancing means remaining out of:	Public places where close contact with others may occur.	)Work places.	)Schools and other classroom settings.	Local public transportation.	)I work for a community or religious organization.  How can we prepare for COVID-19?	Guidance for responding to COVID-19 before, during, and after an outbreak occurs, as well as recommendations for cleaning facilities can be found on US CDC's website.	I work for an organization that serves homeless populations.  How can we prepare for COVID-19?	Guidance for responding to COVID-19 before, during, and after an outbreak occurs, as well as recommendations for cleaning facilities can be found on US CDC's website.	What is 2019 Novel Coronavirus?	)The 2019 Novel Coronavirus, or COVID-19, is a new respiratory virus first identified in Hubei Province, China.	Linked to animal-human transmission, likely in a large live animal market in China.	Not the same as the coronaviruses that cause Middle East Respiratory Syndrome )or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ),or the common cold.	How does the virus spread?	Person-to-person spread is thought to occur when an infected person coughs or sneezes within 6 feet of an uninfected person and the uninfected person breathes in the virus.	Can someone spread the virus without being sick?	People are most contagious when they are the sickest.  Some spread might be possible before people show symptoms, but not the main way the virus spreads.	What are the signs and symptoms of COVID-19?	Signs and symptoms include: fever, cough, difficulty breathing/shortness of breath, and can range from mild to severe and even death.	Decisions to test are up to the clinical judgement of your healthcare provider and should be based on local COVID-19 epidemiology, course and severity of symptoms, and history of travel or contact with a confirmed case.	Testing for other causes of respiratory illness, including infections such as influenza, is strongly encouraged.	Who can be tested for COVID-19 and where?	Work with your healthcare provider to find your nearest testing location.	Decisions to test are left up to the clinical judgement of your healthcare provider.	Testing prioritization at HETL:	)Maine's Health and Environmental Testing Laboratory )is prioritizing testing to high risk individuals to preserve testing supplies during a national supply shortage.	Individuals being tested must be symptomatic )AND fall into one of these high-risk categories:	Hospitalized patients.	Health care workers.	First responders.	)Those living in congregate settings.	)Patients older than 60 years.	Patients with underlying medical conditions.	If symptoms are consistent with COVID-19 but do not fall into high risk category, patient should be evaluated and isolated at home.  Testing is not recommended.	Samples received at HETL for those not meeting high-risk criteria may be saved but later testing cannot be guaranteed.	Samples submitted from asymptomatic individuals will be rejected.	Testing of patients who do not meet high-risk criteria for testing at HETL can be tested at other commercial laboratories.	I was tested for COVID-19.  How long will my results take?  How can I find results?	Contact the healthcare provider that tested you for a timeframe and for results.	How do healthcare facilities test people for COVID-19?	Healthcare providers should follow Interim Guidelines for Specimen Collection from US CDC.	My healthcare provider is not able to test me for COVID-19.  What should I do?	If your symptoms are mild and do not require a visit to your healthcare provider, you should self-isolate at home.	If your symptoms are serious enough to require a visit to your healthcare provider, call ahead BEFORE you leave for your healthcare provider's office.	IF your provider is not able to test you, ask if they can facilitate testing at another location.	Always call ahead BEFORE arriving at a new healthcare provider's location.	Can a person test negative and later test positive for COVID-19?	For COVID-19, a negative test result for a sample collected while a person has symptoms likely means that the COVID-19 virus is not causing the current illness.	Can someone who has had COVID-19 spread the illness to others?	Someone who is actively sick with COVID-19 can spread the illness to others.	Once a person with COVID-19 has been released from isolation and is no longer showing symptoms without the aid of medication ),they are no longer considered able to spread the COVID-19 virus.	Where are the COVID-19 cases located?  I am worried that they live near me.	In order to protect privacy, we cannot share case information with the public.	Maine CDC will update the coronavirus website regularly with information about positive COVID-19 cases in Maine.	What is the difference between self-quarantine, self-isolation, and self-monitoring?	Self-quarantine means that you need to separate yourself from others because you may have been exposed to the COVID-19 virus but are not currently symptomatic.	Self-isolation means that you need to separate yourself from others because you may be infected with the COVID-19 virus and you are experiencing symptoms.	Whether you are self-quarantining or self-isolating, you should:	Stayhome.	Limit the number of visitors in your home.	Avoid contact with others, especially those who are at high risk of severe COVID-19 illness.	Keep a distance of at least 6 feet from other people.	If you are sick, wear a mask that covers your nose and mouth.	Self-monitoring means that you need to pay attention to your health to note if you develop symptoms of COVID-19, including fever, cough, or difficulty breathing.	What should I do if I don't have a Primary Care Provider?	)If you are sick or would like to be tested for COVID-19 but do not have a PCP, you can visit an urgent care or walk-in facility for care and testing.  Always call BEFORE you arrive to let them know you are coming.	The Emergency Department should be reserved for patients whose symptoms require emergency care.	Always call a healthcare facility BEFORE going inside to let them know you are sick.	What should I do if I am under-insured?  If I do not have insurance?	On March 12, 2020, Maine Governor Janet Mills declared an Insurance Emergency.  This requires all private insurers in Maine to cover the costs of coronavirus testing, as well as associated costs, including healthcare visits and copays.	Anyone uninsured in Maine can review this guidance to access COVID-19 testing and care.	Am I at risk for COVID-19 infection in Maine?	Visit the Maine CDC Coronavirus website for information on cases in Maine.	Elevated risk: People in places with ongoing community spread of the virus, healthcare workers, close contacts caring for COVID-19 cases, and travelers returning from affected international locations.	The situation is rapidly evolving.  For the most up-to-date travel information, visit U.S CDC's travel health notices page.	Which states have confirmed cases of COVID-19?	U.S CDC has a map of states with confirmed COVID-19 cases.  This map is updated regularly.	Which countries have confirmed cases?	U.S CDC has a world map and list of countries with confirmed cases.  This map is updated regularly.	Can someone who has been quarantined for COVID-19 spread the illness to others?	No, someone who has been released from COVID-19 quarantine is not considered a risk to others because they have not become ill during the incubation period.	Who is at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19?	Older adults and people who have serious chronic medical conditions are at higher risk for serious illness.	Serious chronic medical conditions include: heart disease, diabetes, and lung disease.	What should people at higher risk of serious illness with COVID-19 do?	If you are at a higher risk of getting very sick from COVID-19, you should:	Stock up on supplies, including daily medications.	Take every day precautions to keep space between yourself and others.	When out in public, keep away from others who are sick.	Limit close contact with others.	Wash your hands often.	Practice social distancing.	If there is an outbreak in your community, stay home as much as possible.	Watch for symptoms.  If you get sick, stay home and call your doctor.	Visit U.S CDC's page for People at Risk for Serious Illness from COVID-19 for more information.	What is the risk for pregnant women and infants of COVID-19?  Should I breastfeed?	Find the latest information on the risk of COVID-19 for pregnant women and infants, as well as recommendations for breastfeeding on US CDC's Pregnancy and Breastfeeding site.	Is my child at increased risk of developing COVID-19?	Find the latest information on the risk of COVID-19 for children on US CDC's COVID-19 and Children site.	Is it safe to travel to countries where there are cases of COVID-19?	Visit US CDC's travel page for the latest updates on travel restrictions and recommendations.	Widespread ongoing transmission with restrictions on entry to the US, avoid nonessential travel: China, Iran, most European countries, United Kingdom and Ireland.	Widespread ongoing transmission without restrictions on entry to the US, avoid nonessential travel: South Korea.	Ongoing community transmission: global.	CDC recommends that older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions should consider postponing nonessential travel to most global destinations.	All travelers should follow general respiratory prevention measures.	Is it safe to travel to areas in the United States that have cases of COVID-19?	Crowded travel settings, like airports, may increase your risk of exposure to COVID-19.	Consider these questions before travel within the US:	Is COVID-19 spreading where you're going?	Will you or your travel companions be in close contact with others during your trip?	Are you or your travel companions at higher risk of severe illness if you do get COVID-19?	Do you have a plan for taking time off from work or school, in case you get exposed to, or are sick with, COVID-19?	Do you live with someone who is older or has a severe chronic health condition?	Is COVID-19 spreading where you live?	The situation is rapidly evolving.  For the most up-to-date travel information, visit U.S CDC's travel health notices page.	I have a connection at an airport in an affected country.  Is that okay?	Airport layovers in international destinations with a level 3 travel health notice are included in the recommendation to avoid nonessential travel.  If unavoidable, do not leave the airport.	You may still be subject to screening and monitoring when entering the US.	Am I at risk of getting COVID-19 on an airplane?	Most viruses and other germs do not spread easily on airplanes because of how air circulates and is filtered.	Although risk of infection on an airplane is low, travelers should practice general respiratory prevention measures.	Is it safe to go on a cruise?	U.S CDC recommends travelers defer all cruise ship travel worldwide, particularly those with underlying health issues.	How are travelers being screened when they enter the U.S.? 	Visit US CDC's Travel page for the latest updates on screening and prohibitions for entry to the US.	I )recently traveled to an affected area.  What should I do?	If you traveled from a Level 3 area, isolate at home for 14 days and monitor for symptoms, following this guidance.	If you are sick: seek medical care but call ahead BEFORE you arrive at the health care facility.  Isolate yourself until you are no longer showing symptoms.	)If you traveled to any other location, monitor your health for 14 days for symptoms.  )Unless experiencing symptoms, you can return to your normal activities.	I recently traveled to an unaffected area and am now sick.  What should I do?	Contact a healthcare provider.  Your healthcare provider may test you for influenza or other respiratory illnesses.	Follow general respiratory prevention measures.	Avoid non-essential travel while sick.	Always practice general respiratory prevention measures.  Anyone with respiratory symptoms should contact a healthcare provider.	What are quarantine recommendations for people returning from global travel, including healthcare workers?	Travelers returning from countries with widespread or ongoing community transmission:	)Self-quarantine at home for 14 days from the time you left the country with a Level 3 notice.	Monitor for fever ),cough, or trouble breathing.  Contact a healthcare provider if you develop symptoms and let them know your recent travel.	Practice social distancing.  Stay home ),do not take public transportation or ride-shares, avoid crowded places, keep distance from others.	)Travelers returning from other countries:	There are no requirements for self-quarantine or monitoring of individuals returning from countries without a CDC Level 3 Travel Alert Notice.	The decision to self-quarantine after travel from these countries is left up to individual judgement.	Travelers can visit US CDC's travel page to determine if COVID-19 is being transmitted in a community abroad.	If the decision to self-quarantine is made, follow these precautions:	Self-quarantine at home for 14 days from the time you left the country.	Monitor for fever ),cough, or trouble breathing during this time.	Practice social distancing.  Stay home ),do not take public transportation or ride-shares, avoid crowded places, keep distance from others.	)Am I at risk if I go to a funeral or visitation service for someone who died of COVID-19?	There is currently no known risk associated with being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with the body of someone who died of COVID-19.	Am I at risk if I touch someone who died of COVID-19 after they have passed away?	Since we are still learning how the virus spreads, people should consider not touching the body of someone who has died of COVID-19.	Activities such as kissing, washing, and shrouding should be avoided before, during, and after the body has been prepared.	If these actions are important religious or cultural practices, wear appropriate personal protection equipment )while working with the deceased.  Funeral homes can help with this guidance.	What do funeral home workers need to know about handling people who have died of COVID-19?	Funeral home workers should follow their routine infection prevention and control precautions.	Embalming can be conducted following standard precautions.  Follow local ordinances for burial or cremation of remains involved in an infectious disease outbreak.	My family member died from COVID-19 while overseas.  What should I do?	If you are overseas, contact the nearest US embassy or consulate.	Can I get COVID-19 from a pet or other animal?  Can my pet get COVID-19?	To date, there are no reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, and no evidence that pets, including dogs, can spread COVID-19.	It is important to include pets in your family's preparedness planning efforts including having a 2-week supply of pet food and pet medicines available.  Visit U.S CDC's Pet Disaster Preparedness Kit site for more information.	Since other infectious diseases can spread between animals and people, it's always a good idea to wash your hands after being around animals or handling animals, their food, or supplies.  Visit CDC's Healthy Pets, Healthy People website.	Should I avoid contact with pets or other animals if I am sick with COVID-19?	Yes, you should restrict contact with pets or other animals while you are sick with COVID-19.	If possible, have another member of your household care for animals while you are sick.  If you must care for animals while sick, wash your hands before and after interacting with animals and wear a facemask.	Avoid contact with animals, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food.	Practice social distancing.  Stay home ),do not take public transportation or ride-shares, avoid crowded places, keep distance from others.	)Should I be worried about animal products imported from affected countries?	Currently, there is no evidence to suggest that animal products imported from affected areas pose a risk for spreading COVID-19 in the U.S.	What should I do if my kids can't go to school?	Childcare: Talk with your employer about sick leave and tele work options if you need to stay home with your child.	Consider alternate child care arrangements, such as having a family member or friend watch your child while you are at work.	Education: Talk to your child's school about options for digital and distance learning.	Discourage children and teens from gathering in other public places while school is dismissed to help slow the spread of COVID-19 in the community.	Keep track of school dismissal updates to determine when students should return to schools.	This decision will be made by individual school districts.	Talk to your child about COVID-19 to reduce anxiety and stress.	How should I cope with stress during a COVID-19 outbreak in my community?	An outbreak of COVID-19 in your community may be very stressful.	Visit US CDC's Mental Health and Coping During COVID-19 site for ways you can support yourself during an outbreak.	Am I at risk for COVID-19 from a package or products shipping from China?	Currently there is no evidence to support the spread of COVID-19 with imported goods.  There are no cases of COVID-19 associated with imported goods.	Can the COVID-19 virus be passed through water?  Should wastewater treatment workers be worried?	No.  Conventional water treatment methods should remove or inactivate the virus that causes COVID-19.	Visit US CDC's Water Transmission and COVID-19 page for more information.