	COVID-19 is a viral respiratory illness caused by a coronavirus that has not been found in people before.  Because this is a new virus, there are still things we do not know, such as how severe the illness can be, how well it is transmitted between people, and other features of the virus.  More information will be provided when it is available.	Many cases have mild or moderate illness and do not require a clinic visit and most do not require hospitalization.  Those at highest risk for severe illness include older people or those that have certain underlying health conditions.  These include such high risk conditions as a blood disorder, chronic kidney disease, chronic liver disease, compromised immune system, late term or recent pregnancy, endocrine disorders, metabolic disorders, heart disease, lung disease, neurological conditions.  Check with your health care provider to see if you are considered high risk.	According to CDC, patients with confirmed COVID-19 have had mild to severe respiratory illness with symptoms of:	Some patients have had other symptoms including muscle aches, headache, sore throat, or diarrhea.	These symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure.	The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.	It spreads between people who are in close contact with one another.	)These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.	It is also possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes.  Washing your hands and cleaning frequently touched surfaces often is a good way to prevent you from getting COVID-19 from touching surfaces.	Some spread might be possible before people show symptoms );there have been reports of this occurring with this new coronavirus, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	The virus spreads most easily when a person has symptoms and is coughing or sneezing.	People who do not have symptoms should not be tested for COVID-19.  Due to national shortages of lab testing supplies, we do not have an unlimited capacity for testing.	We are currently prioritizing most testing for people who are hospitalized, health care workers, and people living or working in congregate living settings, such as nursing homes and others.	Most clinics and hospitals across the state have the ability to collect samples )for lab testing.	It is best to call your health care provider before going to the clinic or hospital to be tested.	MDH does not directly collect samples for testing; we receive the samples from providers and do the testing in our public health laboratory.	There are some commercial reference laboratories that can test.  Your health care provider may conduct testing through these laboratories.  If you are tested for COVID-19, the clinic that did your testing will get the results to you.	If you were a close contact of someone sick with COVID-19 there are different recommendations depending on whether or not your close contact was tested.	If you or someone in your household is determined to be a close contact of a lab confirmed case of COVID-19, the Minnesota Department of Health )will speak with you directly about staying home for 14 days after exposure.	If you were exposed to a close contact )who was diagnosed with COVID-19, but not laboratory confirmed, it is still important that you monitor your health for 14 days after that exposure.	Please stay at home as much as possible.  Some people may be required to go to work.	Before you go to work, please work with your supervisor or occupational health staff to arrange ways for you to check your symptoms in the morning before you go to work.	If you do go to work, monitor for symptoms, wash your hands, and wipe down surfaces.	Health care workers should check with their occupational health.  See if you can be reassigned to non-direct patient care duties.  If there is a shortage of health care workers and you must work, wear a surgical mask and practice meticulous hand hygiene.  In addition, do not see patients who are at high risk for severe disease if infected.	If you are exposed to someone who was exposed to COVID-19, but has no symptoms, you can still go about normal activities.  MDH does not consider contacts of contacts to be at increased risk for COVID-19.	If you have symptoms of a respiratory disease ),you should stay home for at least 7 days, and for 3 days with no fever and improvement of respiratory symptoms-- whichever is longer.  )For example, if you have a fever and coughing for 4 days, you need to stay home 3 more days with no fever for a total of 7 days.  Or, if you have a fever and coughing for 5 days, you need to stay home 3 more days with no fever for a total of 8 days.	If you have symptoms and can manage those symptoms at home, you don't have to seek health care or be tested for COVID-19.	Just stay home while you are sick.  This prevents you from accidentally spreading COVID-19 to others who may be at higher risk for serious complications.	If you are older or have underlying medical conditions, it may be helpful to let your health care provider know you are sick.  They may have some specific advice for you.	Some people with COVID-19 have worsened during the second week of illness.	Seek medical care right away if your illness is worsening.	)Before going to the doctor's office or emergency room, call ahead and tell them your symptoms.  They will tell you what to do.	CDC's Coronavirus Self-Checker found at Symptoms & Testing can help you make decisions about seeking appropriate medical care.  This tool is not intended for the diagnosis or treatment of disease or other conditions, including COVID-19.	There is no specific treatment for COVID-19.  Get rest and stay hydrated.	If your symptoms worsen to the point that you need to see a doctor, call ahead before going in.	Information changes quickly, so please check these websites for the latest information.	The Coronavirus Disease 2019 )is a respiratory illness in people caused by a new virus.  It can spread from person to person.	Since this is a new virus, there are still things we do not know, but we are learning more about COVID-19 each day.	Minnesota's public health community is working to slow the spread of COVID-19 in our state, and we count on everyone to help.	Avoid assumptions about who you think may be sick.  Viruses don't discriminate.	Symptoms People with confirmed COVID-19 infection have had mild to severe respiratory illness with symptoms of:	People who are mildly ill with COVID-19 can stay at home during their illness.  You should restrict activities outside your home, except for getting medical care.  Call your health care provider if you need to seek medical care.	The best ways to protect yourself from COVID-19 are to do the same things you do to protect yourself from colds and flu:	Wash your hands often with soap and water.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.	Be careful about where you get information about COVID-19.  Promises of a "cure" or a guaranteed way to prevent COVID-19 are not accurate.  As of now, there is no vaccine for COVID-19.  Please continue to see the MDH and CDC websites for information on how to help prevent COVID-19.	CDC recommends avoiding all non-essential travel to all global destinations.  Review travel recommendations posted on CDC: Travel if you are planning to travel, and keep an eye on the news for updates on this evolving situation.	There is widespread, ongoing community transmission spread worldwide.  If you have traveled internationally in the past 14 days, stay home and monitor your health.	For specific instructions, including what to do if you should get sick, visit CDC: Travelers Returning from International Travel.	CDC has implemented guidance for managing and assessing people coming to the U.S from several restricted areas, including China, Iran, most European countries, and the United Kingdom.	Under this guidance, only U.S citizens, legal residents, and their immediate families are able to come to the U.S from restricted areas.  Foreign nationals who have visited any of the restricted areas in the preceding 14 days may not be allowed to enter the U.S.	Find a current list of restricted countries and more information at CDC: Travelers Prohibited from Entry to the United States.	What you can do to prepare, if you or a family member gets ill, or if your community experiences spread of COVID-19.	Start now:	Monitor local information about COVID-19 in your community.	Practice personal protective measures.	)Put household plan into action.	People who are 65 and older, or people of any age who have underlying medical conditions should stay at home and avoid gatherings or other situations of potential exposures, including travel.	Continue these activities:	Know where to find local information on COVID-19 and local trends of COVID-19 cases.	Know the signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and what to do if symptomatic:	Stay home when you are sick.	Call your health care provider's office before you go in.	Limit movement in the community.	Limit visitors.	Know what additional measures people at high risk and who are vulnerable should take.	Implement personal protective measures.	)Create a household plan of action in case of illness in the household or disruption of daily activities due to COVID-19 in the community.	Consider getting a two-week supply of prescription and over the counter medications, food and other essentials to keep at home.  Know how to get food delivered if possible.	Establish ways to communicate with others.	)Establish plans to telework, what to do about child care needs, and how to adapt to cancellation of events.	Know about emergency operations plans for schools/workplaces of household members.	Take the same precautions recommended for avoiding colds and flu:	Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough.	Information on how you can protect yourself, your family, and your home, as well as how to manage stress and anxiety.	Information on caring for yourself or someone at home and how to disinfect your home.	At this time, there is no evidence that dogs, cats, or other household pets can spread COVID-19.  However, CDC is recommending that people who are sick with COVID-19 limit their contact with pets and other animals, just as they would restrict contact with other household members.  This conservative approach helps protect pets and other animals.	To prepare to care for your pets in case you or your family must stay home, think about necessary items to have on hand ahead of time, including sufficient pet food and prescription or non-prescription medications.	COVID-19 is a new disease and there is limited information regarding risk factors for severe disease.  Based on currently available information and clinical expertise, older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions might be at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19.	Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including cancer treatment, bone marrow or organ transplantation, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled HIV or AIDS, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications.	When an outbreak of a disease reaches the point where it is actively spreading in a community, community organizations need to take actions too.  By taking these actions, community organizations can help slow the spread and reduce demands on the health care sector so the most seriously ill people get the supportive care they need.	On this page:	Mitigation strategies to slow the spread of COVID-19.	Start now:	Implement social distancing measures:	Reduce activities ),especially for organizations with people with underlying medical conditions.	Consider offering video/audio of events.	Determine ways to continue providing support services to people at increased risk of severe disease )while limiting group settings and exposures.	Cancel large gatherings )or move to smaller groupings.	For organizations that serve high-risk populations, cancel gatherings of more than 10 people.	Continue these activities:	Know where to find local information on COVID-19 and local trends of COVID-19 cases.	Know the signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and what to do if organization members/staff become symptomatic.	Identify safe ways to serve those that are at high risk or vulnerable.	)Review, update, or develop emergency plans for the organization, with special consideration for people at increased risk of severe illness.	Encourage staff and members to stay home and notify organization administrators of illness when sick.	Encourage personal protective measures among organization/members and staff.	)Clean frequently touched surfaces at organization gathering points daily.	Ensure hand hygiene supplies are readily available in building.	Includes COVID-19 specific guidance.	These recommendations apply to congregate living facilities such as shelters, group homes, and residential treatment facilities.	For more information and guidance for shelter and congregate living )providers.	Mental health and behavioral health resources specific to COVID-19.	As things progress with COVID-19 prevention efforts, you or your loved ones may be experiencing increased stress and anxiety.  Consider the following tips to support your mental well-being during these uncertain times.  It is important to be gentle with yourself and others, and to take steps to support both your own and your family's mental well-being.	Tips to remain connected while practicing social distancing or in quarantine:	Use technology to stay in touch if available, especially video contact.  Seeing someone's facial expressions can help increase connection.	Speak to neighbors from a distance, over a fence or across balconies.	Check in with your friends, family, and neighbors regularly.	Wherever you can, assist people in your life who may be more vulnerable )Connect with the people in your household.  Use this time to improve your existing relationships!	Manage your stress.  Create a daily self-care routine.  Exercise, meditate, and keep to a daily routine as much as possible.	Show kindness to others in your community.  This is very stressful for many people, especially those who are vulnerable and families who may be struggling already with poverty or other family stressors.  It is also very stressful for health care workers and their families.  Helping others also increase your sense of purpose and value, improving your own well-being.  It's not just family and friends who require support, but others in your community.	As news about the novel coronavirus disease 2019 )continues, children may have questions for parents and caregivers about the disease.  Especially as normal routines change, children may display signs of worry about themselves, their families and their friends.  Certain words and practices can help children cope with their feelings and help guide discussions.  The Center for Disease Control and Prevention has put together a resource document to help parents and caregivers talk with their children about COVID-19.	Children react to what you say and how you say it.  They "absorb" what is said to others and pick up on nonverbal body language.  The calmer you seem, the more relaxed your child will be, which helps children better understand what they are told.  The Center for Disease Control and Prevention has put together a list of words and actions that can help parents and caregivers discuss COVID-19 with their children.	When children are worried, it is important to make time to talk with them.  They need to know they can express their feelings and ask questions, and that you can take the time to answer their questions.	Children see and hear more than we as parents and caregivers are aware.  It is important to know what your child has seen or heard about COVID-19 so that you can discuss any worries or misinformation.	Children are curious by nature.  Following your children's lead by responding to questions they ask helps them have the age-appropriate information that they need to help keep themselves healthy and safe, as well as appropriately informed.  If your child asks about something that you do not know, rely upon the CDC's information to answer the question in an age-appropriate way.  Be honest, but be reassuring.	Explain to your child that most people with COVID-19 have cold-like symptoms.  Explain that some people, however, can get very sick.  Some kids with chronic health conditions and older people are some of these people.  Explain that we can all help by washing our hands frequently and staying home right now to help stop the virus from spreading.  Letting children know this information can help them feel like they have some control and worry less.	Maintaining routine is important for children, especially when there is increased uncertainty and stress.  As school and home routines are disrupted, children may have trouble regulating their emotions and behaviors.  Maintain basic daily routines as you normally would, such as getting ready for the day and bedtime schedules.  If you have school-age children, create a basic loose structure for the day and week.  Consider the following tips:	Have a goal or theme for the week, like a camp!	Utilize any educational resources that your school provides for a portion of each day; the amount of time may vary depending on the age of your child.	Spend some time outside each day for exercise and fresh air.	Include time for fun and relaxation too.	Can my animal become ill with or spread COVID-19?	There is no evidence at this time that your animal can become ill with COVID-19 or that they can spread it to other animals or people.	However, it is always a good idea to practice good hand hygiene after normal interactions with your pet and keep your animal's environment clean.	Please see the CDC Healthy Animals, Healthy People )webpage for additional information.	Can I bring my animal into the veterinarian for care?	If you are healthy and your pet needs to see a veterinarian, please call before bringing them in to the vet Veterinary clinics are taking precautions and may have a special operating procedure that you will be asked to follow.	If you are ill with COVID-19 and your animal needs emergency care, ask a healthy family member or friend bring your animal in to be seen.	Can I have contact with my animal if I am ill with COVID-19?	If you are ill with COVID-19 it is recommended to limit contact with your pet.  If possible, have another member of the household care for your animal.	If you are the only caretaker for your animal or you have a service dog; do not kiss, hug or have "face-to-face" contact with them.  When in contact with your animal's items )always wash your hands with soap and water before and after handling.	Should my animal be tested for COVID-19?	At this time, it is not recommended to perform routine testing of animals for COVID-19.	If your animal is displaying signs of respiratory illness, please consult your veterinarian who can check for more common respiratory problems.	Below is a summary of the COVID-19 executive orders issued by Governor Tim Walz that pertain to staying at home, public accommodations, and schools.  More information on Governor Walz and Lieutenant Governor Flanagan's actions to respond to this outbreak can be found at:Complete list of executive orders.	To protect the public's health and slow the rate of transmission of COVID-19, Governor Walz issued an executive order directing Minnesotans to stay at home and limit movements outside of their home beyond essential needs.  This order takes effect at 11:59 p.m on Friday, March 27 and ends at 5 p.m on Friday, April 10.  The Governor's two-week order to stay home is forecasted to help slow the spread of COVID-19 and allow the state to make key preparations for the pandemic.  These preparations include building hospital capacity, increasing access to life-saving equipment like ventilators, increasing testing, planning for how to care for vulnerable populations, and assessing public health data to determine which community mitigation strategies are most effective.	Minnesotans may leave their homes only to perform any of the following activities:	Health and safety activities, such as obtaining emergency services or medical supplies.	Outdoor activities, such as walking, hiking, running, biking, hunting, or fishing.	Obtain necessary supplies and services, such as getting groceries, gasoline, or carry-out.	Essential and interstate travel, such as returning to a home from outside this state.	Care of others, such as caring for a family member, friend, or pet in another household.	Displacement, such as moving between emergency shelters if you are without a home.	Relocation to ensure safety, such as relocating to a diff erent location if your home becomes unsafe due to domestic violence, sanitation, or essential operations reasons.	Tribal activities and lands, such as activities by members within the boundaries of their tribal reservation.	While doing these things you should practice social distancing.	)What is a stay at home order?	A stay at home order directs Minnesotans to limit movements outside of their homes beyond essential needs.  By limiting social interactions, we decrease the chance of transmission of COVID-19 and help our health care sector prepare for increased demands.	Why is this stay at home order necessary?	The COVID-19 pandemic presents an unprecedented danger to Minnesota.  If Minnesota takes no action to combat the spread or fails to prepare our health care system, current modeling indicates that more than 70,000 of our loved ones, friends, and neighbors in Minnesota could die.	When is it okay for me to leave my home?	Minnesotans may leave their homes to pick up essential items such as groceries or food, prescriptions, and gas, to relocate for safety reasons, or go to work if their job is deemed essential in a sector.  If you leave your home, practice social distancing measures and keep six feet between you and those around you.  Everyone is encouraged to stay active outside during this time, provided they practice safe social distancing.	Permissible activities during the stay at home order include:	Health and safety activities, such as obtaining emergency services or medical supplies Outdoor activities, such as walking pets, hiking, running, biking, hunting, or fishing Necessary Supplies and Services, such as getting groceries, gasoline, or carry-out Essential and interstate travel, such as returning to home from outside this state Care of others, such as caring for a family member, friend, or pet in another household Displacement, such as moving between emergency or homeless shelters if you are without a home Relocation to ensure safety, such as relocating to a different location if your home has been unsafe due to domestic violence, sanitation, or essential operations reasons Tribal Activities & Lands, such as activities by members within the boundaries of their tribal reservations Funerals, provided that the gathering consists of no more than 10 attendees and the space utilized allows for social distancing.  )Venues should make accommodations for remote attendance, if possible, for others.  Individuals who are at high risk from COVID-19 are strongly encouraged to attend remotely.	Executive Order 20-20 allows for the list of exempted activities to be clarified, as deemed necessary by the Governor, to ensure the health, safety and security of all Minnesotans.	I feel unsafe in my home, can I leave?	If you feel unsafe in your home, you should leave.  If you are in an emergency, call 911.	How often should I purchase food and supplies?	Individuals and families should use their best judgement and purchase only what they need.  Grocery stores and food supply chains are sufficiently stocked with enough food and essential items for all Minnesotans.	What stores will remain open?	The executive order directs Minnesotans to stay home and only leave to care for essential needs.  The executive order includes exemptions for workers who work at stores providing groceries and other essential supplies, so we expect many of those stores to remain open.	I'm out of state, can I return?	Yes, individuals may travel to return to their home or residence.	What if I need to get tested for coronavirus or to go to the doctor?	You may leave your home to receive health care, including COVID-19 testing, emergency dental care and other kinds of necessary medical visits.  We recommend people call ahead to their health care provider or doctor before seeking medical treatment.	What workers are exempt from the order?	Workers who provide critical services are exempt.  The resources available here are meant to help you determine eligibility for Critical Sector worker exemptions.  Our exemptions are based on federal guidance from the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency )at the U.S Department of Homeland Security with some Minnesota-specific additions.	This includes, but is not limited to jobs in:	Healthcare and public health.	Law enforcement, public safety, and first responders.	Child care.	Emergency shelters.	Homeless shelters.	Food and agriculture.	News media.	Energy.	Water and wastewater.	Critical manufacturing.	How will this order be enforced?	All Minnesotans are urged to voluntarily comply with this Executive Order.  The state is working with local law enforcement to support the order.	Why is this order statewide?	Community spread of COVID-19 in Minnesota and nationwide is increasing.  By staying at home, we will limit the spread of COVID-19 in our communities --across every corner of the state.	Is Minnesota closing its borders and declaring martial law?	No.  People are free to come into Minnesota, even during this temporary stay-at-home order.  These measures are meant to protect Minnesotans-- especially our most vulnerable neighbors.	When will the stay at home order be lifted?	The executive order is effective from March 27 at 11:59pm to April 10 at 5:00pm.	Can I move to a new home or apartment?	Yes, moving to a new home or apartment is allowed.  Moving and relocation services are also allowed to continue.	Will we need documentation or a letter to be outside of our homes?	You are not required to carry any paperwork when you are traveling to and from your place of employment, or anywhere else.  All Minnesotans are urged to voluntarily comply with this Executive Order.	Can I travel to and from my cabin?	Although the executive order doesn't prohibit traveling to or from a cabin, the Governor strongly urges all Minnesotans to stay in their primary residences.  Staying home helps protects your neighbors from spreading COVID-19 and also avoids crowding rural medical facilities.  Avoiding this kind of travel makes us all safer and healthier.	Can children go to a playground?	Like other outdoor activities, going to a playground is allowed under the stay at home order.  Families and guardians should be careful to ensure children wash hands after touching play structures and maintain six feet of space from other children as much as possible.  Although the Governor's order doesn't close playgrounds, they may be closed by local authorities.	While the Stay at Home Executive Order is in effect, can an employer require a critical sector employee to come to work instead of working from home?	On March 25, 2020, Governor Walz issued Executive Order 20-20 ,directing Minnesotans to limit movements outside of their homes from March 27 at 11:59 p.m to April 10 at 5:00 p.m to help slow the spread of COVID-19.  The Executive Order does not restrict virtual work or telework.  )The Order encourages Minnesotans working in any field to work from their home or residence as much as possible.	The Order identifies critical sector workers and states that "all [critical sector] workers who can work from home must do so.  Workers in the following Critical Sectors, who are performing work that cannot be done at their home or residence through telework or virtual work and can be done only at a place of work outside of their home or residence, are exempted from the prohibition in the order."  The resources available here are meant to help you determine eligibility for Critical Sector worker exemptions.	If there is a dispute about an employee's ability to work from home, we encourage the employer and employee to work collaboratively to come up with a solution in light of the Order's directive that all critical sector workers who can work from home must do so.  The Governor's focus is on education and voluntary compliance with the Order, but the Order has the force of law and a willful )violation is a misdemeanor.  The Minnesota Department of Public Safety will work with local law enforcement officials to enforce the Order.  If a dispute remains unresolved, employees can contact the SEOC hotline numbers: 651-297-1304 or 800-657-3504.	)Can I continue to go to sobriety support meetings, such as Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous?	In-person sobriety support meetings are not an exempted activity under the stay at home order.  These types of gatherings are restricted in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19 between households and protect Minnesotans most vulnerable to the effects of COVID-19.  Sobriety support groups are encouraged to provide virtual meetings or meetings by telephone for members who need assistance and support during this trying time.  Please refer to the following resources to learn more about accessing remote sobriety support:	Workers who work in critical sectors during this time are exempt from the stay at home order.	The previous order closing the following places of public accommodation was extended until May 1, 2020 at 5 p.m.: 	Restaurants, food courts, cafes, coffeehouses, and other places of public accommodation offering food or beverage for on-premises consumption, excluding institutional or in-house food cafeterias that serve residents, employees, and clients of businesses, child care facilities, hospitals, and long-term care facilities.	Bars, taverns, brew pubs, breweries, microbreweries, distilleries, wineries, tasting rooms, clubs, and other places of public accommodation offering alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption.	Hookah bars, cigar bars, and vaping lounges offering their products for on-premises consumption.	Theaters, cinemas, indoor and outdoor performance venues, and museums.	Gymnasiums, fitness centers, recreation centers, indoor sports facilities, indoor exercise facilities, exercise studios, and spas.	Amusement parks, arcades, bingo halls, bowling alleys, indoor climbing facilities, skating rinks, trampoline parks, and other similar recreational or entertainment facilities.	Country clubs, golf clubs, boating or yacht clubs, sports or athletic clubs, and dining clubs.	Places of public accommodation are encouraged to offer food and beverage using delivery service, window service, walk-up service, drive-through service, or drive-up service, and to use precautions in doing so to mitigate the potential transmission of COVID-19, including social distancing.	In offering food or beverage, a place of public accommodation subject to this section may permit up to five members of the public at one time in the place of public accommodation for the purpose of picking up their food or beverage orders, so long as those individuals are at least 6 feet apart from one another while on premises.	The restrictions do not apply to any of the following:	Places of public accommodation that offer food and beverage not for on-premises consumption, including grocery stores, markets, convenience stores, pharmacies, drug stores, and food pantries.	Health care facilities, child care facilities, residential care facilities, congregate care facilities, and juvenile justice facilities.	Crisis shelters, soup kitchens, or similar institutions.	Restaurants and food courts inside the secured zones of airports.	For all workplaces, it is important that employees assess themselves for symptoms regularly and go home right away if ill.  All employees should practice careful and frequent hand hygiene, not touch their faces with unwashed hands, and use respiratory etiquette.	Governor Walz and Education Commissioner Mary Cathryn Ricker have announced that all Minnesota public school districts and charter schools will implement a Distance Learning Period beginning on March 30, 2020, until May 4, 2020.  The pair previously announced that all Minnesota public schools closed from March 18 through March 27, 2020, to allow districts and charter schools to develop distancing learning plans, which they will now begin implementing on March 30, 2020.