	What is a coronavirus?  What is COVID-19?	Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause illness in animals and humans.  Human coronaviruses commonly circulate in the United States and usually cause mild illnesses like the common cold.  Coronavirus Disease 2019 )is a disease that was identified in late 2019 and was declared a pandemic on March 11.  COVID-19 is an international, national and NC public health emergency.  Learn more about COVID-19 from NCDHHS and the CDC.	How does it spread and what can I do to prevent it from spreading?	Coronaviruses, like COVID-19, are most often spread through the air by coughing or sneezing, through close personal contact )or through touching your nose, mouth or eyes before washing your hands.	To help prevent the spread, the best thing you can do is stay home as much as possible --especially if:	You should also follow these common-sense measures to help protect yourself and others from spreading COVID-19 and other viruses:	Wash your hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds at a time.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid close contact with people who are ill.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.	Do not reuse tissue after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.	Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched.	Practice social distancing when you can, staying at least 6 feet away from others.	Learn more from the CDC about how COVID-19 spreads and how to protect yourself and your community from getting and spreading respiratory illnesses.	Should I wear a mask?	The CDC does not recommend that people who are healthy wear a facemask to protect themselves from respiratory viruses.  Facemasks should be used by people who have been diagnosed with COVID-19 and other respiratory illness like flu to protect others from getting infected.  Healthcare providers and others taking care of people with COVID-19 should wear appropriate personal protective equipment.	Should I worry about opening packages?	Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated with imported goods and there have not been any cases of COVID-19 in the United States associated with imported goods.	Can you get COVID-19 from touching contaminated objects?	Possibly, if you touch a surface with the virus on it, and then touch your mouth, nose or eyes.  However, this is not likely to be the main way the virus spreads.	Is a vaccine available?	Currently there is no vaccine to protect against COVID-19.  The best way to protect yourself from respiratory diseases like COVID-19 is to take common-sense precautions.  These include frequent hand washing, avoiding touching your face, covering your mouth when you cough or sneeze, making sure you have gotten your annual flu shot and practicing social distancing by staying six feet away from others as much as possible.  There is work underway to develop a vaccine.	What is community spread?	Community spread means there is at least one case where we don't know how someone contracted COVID-19.  They didn't have contact with someone who has tested positive or traveled to highly impacted area.	What are the symptoms and when do they appear?	Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to the flu.  They are:	COVID-19 typically causes mild to moderate respiratory illness.  Most people with COVID-19 have mild symptoms that do not require hospitalization, although there have been reports of severe illness with a small percentage resulting in death.  Respiratory symptoms alone are not an indicator for COVID-19.	Symptoms may appear two to 14 days after exposure.	Can COVID-19 be spread before someone has symptoms?	We know that people are most contagious when they have symptoms.  Whether the virus can be spread before someone has symptoms is currently being evaluated.  More on how COVID-19 spreads is available from the CDC.	What treatments are available?	Most people with illnesses due to coronavirus recover on their own.  There are no specific treatments for COVID-19, but treatments to bring down fever or alleviate other symptoms may help.  For people who become severely ill, hospitals can provide care.  There is more to be learned about COVID-19 as the situation continues to evolve, and treatment options may change over time.  Learn more from the CDC.	Who is considered a high-risk individual?	Older adults and people who have severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease and those with weakened immune systems seem to be at higher risk for more serious COVID-19 illness if they become infected with the virus.  Learn more about who may be at higher risk for severe illness.	Additionally, the CDC has more information about at-risk individuals, including older adults, people with asthma, and people with HIV.	I had contact with someone who was diagnosed with COVID-19.  What should I do?	If you have had close contact with someone while they were symptomatic, you should monitor yourself for symptoms, stay home to the extent possible and contact your health care provider if you start suffering from severe illness.  If you do not have health insurance, call your nearest Federally Qualified Health Center.	)More on exposure and symptoms here.  See current CDC guidance on actions to take based on your level of exposure.	What is hydroxychloroquine )and does it treat COVID-19?	Hydroxychloroquine is FDA approved to treat lupus and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as treat or prevent malaria.  So far, studies with small numbers of patients suggest that hydroxychloroquine could reduce the length of hospital stay and improve COVID-19 pneumonia in severely ill patients.  We continue to review the evidence as it becomes available.  We do not have data at this time to show hydroxychloroquine can prevent coronavirus infection.  Learn more from the CDC.	What other medications being tested to treat COVID-19?	Many medications are being tested to treat or prevent COVID-19, but no medication is currently approved by the FDA to treat the virus.  Many of the medications in testing for COVID-19 are FDA approved to treat serious diseases, such as tuberculosis, HIV infection, and autoimmune conditions.  It is important that those medications remain available to treat the conditions for which they are FDA approved as their effectiveness for COVID-19 is being assessed.  Learn more from the CDC.	How can providers and pharmacies help ensure medications remain available for chronic conditions if the medication is in testing for COVID-19?	As more treatments are investigated for COVID-19 treatments, we encourage prescribers to limit prescriptions to drugs consistent with evidence for their use, and in quantities consistent with such.  Many of the drugs in evaluation for COVID-19 are FDA approved for other diseases and vital to ongoing patient therapy.  We recommend providers issue prescriptions for medications to treat COVID-19 when warranted based on professional judgment and current evidence, and include on the prescription the diagnosis, limit quantities to no more than 14 days, and permit no refills without a follow-up prescription.	The NC Board of Pharmacy passed the COVID19 Drug Preservation Rule on 3/24/2020.  The text of the rule is available here.  This rule restricts dispensing to 14 days of certain medications when used for COVID19.  This helps maintain supplies for medications for patients using them for chronic conditions and severely ill COVID19 patients.  The NC Board of Pharmacy has and FAQ on their website at.	Are veterinary medications or other products with chloroquine as an active ingredient safe to consume?	No.  People should not take any medications unless they are FDA approved for human consumption and prescribed by their doctor.  There has been a report of a death because a person took a fish care product that contained chloroquine.  The Pet Industry Joint Advisory Council issued a statement reminding everyone "that they should never use pet care products, or any products, for any purpose other than what the label directs."	Is there a COVID-19 vaccine?	No.  There are trials for a coronavirus vaccine, but a commercially-available vaccine will take many months to over a year to develop.	I have recently traveled.  What should I do?	Visit our travel guidance for more information.	I have a trip planned.  Should I still go?	There are currently no specific advisories or restrictions for travel within the United States, however Gov Roy Cooper has signed Executive Order 121, effective 5 p.m March 30, 2020, ordering North Carolinians remain in their homes except for performing essential work and essential activities.	)Cases of COVID-19 have been reported in all 50 states, and some areas are experiencing community spread of the disease.  Crowded travel settings, such as airports, might increase your risk of exposure to COVID-19 if there are other travelers with COVID-19.	The CDC and NCDHHS recommend that adults over age 65, people with serious underlying health conditions )and people with weakened immune systems avoid travel at this time if possible and stay home to the extent possible to decrease the chance of infection.	Travel recommendations are frequently changing.  Visit the CDC's website and the U.S Department of State website for the latest travel recommendations and visit our travel guidance for more information.	Are there certain things I should do if I decide to travel?	If you must travel, please follow these common-sense recommendations:	Do not travel if you are sick.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food.	If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.  Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth.	Avoid close contact with people who are ill.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze and throw it away.  If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into your upper sleeve, not your hands.	If you feel well, it is not necessary to wear a facemask.  Facemasks are most effective when used by people who are already ill to prevent them from spreading viruses and other germs.	Visit our travel guidance for more information.	What can I do to protect myself and my family?	There are common sense measures everyone can take to protect themselves and others from the spread of COVID-19.  NCDHHS recommends that people at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 stay at home to the extent possible to decrease the chance of infection.  Everyone should also practice social distancing staying six feet away from others as much as possible.	See information on individuals and families.	What should older adults do to protect themselves?	Older adults and people who have severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease and those with weakened immune systems are at a higher risk for more serious COVID-19 illness.  NCDHHS recommends that people at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 stay at home to the extent possible to decrease the chance of infection.  Learn more about what high-risk individuals should do.	What can pregnant women do to protect themselves?	There is limited information so far about COVID-19 in pregnant women.  Pregnant women are at higher risk from influenza and other respiratory viruses, so they are encouraged to be extra vigilant.  There is no evidence that children are more susceptible to COVID-19.  The CDC has information specifically for pregnant women and children.	Go to COVID-19: Individuals and Families for more information.	Can I visit a nursing home or elder care facility?	NCDHHS recommends that all facilities that serve as residential establishments for high-risk persons restrict visitors.  This is due to older adults and those with chronic conditions being more likely to have severe illness when infected with COVID-19.  These establishments include nursing homes, independent and assisted living facilities, correctional facilities, and facilities that care for medically-vulnerable children.	How can my household prepare for an outbreak?	The CDC recommends households have a plan of action to prepare for a COVID-19 outbreak.  People should think about having daily necessities and medications to last about two weeks, in case they need to isolate.  Massive stock piling of supplies is not necessary.	Individuals and families should have a plan in case they need to miss work due to illness or need to care for a sick family member.	Find more information on household planning.	What cleaning products should I use to prevent the spread of COVID-19?  What should be cleaned?	Clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces in common areas, such as doorknobs, light switches, remotes, handles, tables, desks, toilets, sinks, hard-back chairs.  First, clean dirty surfaces with detergent or soap and water.  Disinfect surfaces with diluted household bleach solution ),alcohol solutions of 70%+ alcohol or EPA-registered household disinfectants.  Use gloves or wash hands thoroughly after cleaning.  More from the CDC.	Find more information on household planning.	How long will COVID-19 remain on surfaces?	Current evidence suggests that COVID-19 may remain viable for hours to days on surfaces.	How is COVID-19 diagnosed?	COVID-19 is diagnosed through a laboratory test.  More information about testing in North Carolina is here.	Should I get tested?	If you develop symptoms of COVID-19, you should call to discuss this with your health care provider and your local health department.  Testing for COVID-19 can only be done in consultation with your health care provider or local health department.  Learn more about testing in North Carolina.	Why are we not testing more?	Supplies have been limited, but testing is targeted to people who are symptomatic.  Testing for asymptomatic persons is not recommended.  Testing criteria has been expanded.  Learn more about testing in North Carolina.	Where can I find out how many COVID-19 cases are in North Carolina?	Case counts can be found here.	Who is social distancing recommended for?  Should we all be social distancing?	Social distancing or maintaining a minimum distance of 6 feet away from others is recommended at this point for everyone.	What is the difference between self-monitoring, isolation and quarantine?	These are protective measures used to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among people who may have been exposed.	Self-monitoring is for those that may have been exposed to a person with COVID-19, and that they should monitor themselves for symptoms.  Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, and shortness of breath.  If they develop symptoms )during the self-monitoring period, they should self-isolate, limit contact with others, and seek advice by telephone from a healthcare provider or their local health department to determine whether medical evaluation is needed.	Quarantine is for people who were exposed to a person with a confirmed case of COVID-19 but are not experiencing symptoms.  Contact your local health department if you are unsure if you should self-quarantine.	Isolation separates people who are sick from those who are well.  The people who tested presumptive positive and positive in North Carolina are in isolation.	Learn more about COVID-19 exposure and symptoms.	How is it decided when a person with COVID-19 can self-isolate at home or must be confined somewhere?	Local health departments will work in partnership with physicians and the NC Division of Public Health to determine whether a person with COVID-19 requires hospitalization or home isolation.  The decision may be based on multiple factors including severity of illness, need for testing and suitability of home isolation.	What should child care centers do if a child or staff member is sick?	Children and staff should remain home if sick.	If a child or staff member develops the following symptoms, send them home as soon as possible:	While waiting for a sick child to be picked up, caregivers should stay with the child in a room isolated from others.  If the child has symptoms of COVID-19 ),the caregiver should remain as far away as safely possible from the child.  )If facemasks are available, wear a facemask.	It is also recommended that child care facilities have flexible sick leave and absentee policies that do not encourage people to come in while sick.	Go to Child Care Guidance for more information.	What's the criteria for screening children or staff for illness?	Conduct a Daily Health Check and ask children and staff:	If they have had close contact )with anyone diagnosed with COVID-19.	If anyone in their household has symptoms of respiratory illness.	)Consider screening children and employees for fever, cough or shortness of breath upon arrival each day.	People with a temperature greater than 100.4 F should be sent home until they have had no fever for 24 hours without the use of fever-reducing medications.	)Anyone diagnosed with COVID-19 should remain isolated until at least 7 days after symptom onset AND 72 hours after symptom resolution )unless otherwise instructed by their local health department.	For infants and young children, temperature can be taken by axillary.	)For children over age four, temperature can be taken orally.  )Individual plastic covers should be used on oral thermometers with each use or thermometers should be cleaned and sanitized after each use according to the manufacturer's instructions.  Another option for children ages six months and older is an ear or forehead thermometer with a disposable cover that is changed after each reading.  Temperature should not be taken rectally in a child care setting.	How can I limit chances for exposure to COVID-19 at a child care center?	Have parents drop off children outside the classroom.  Staff should meet children as they are dropped off.	Only staff needed to maintain ratio compliance should be inside classrooms.	Cancel or postpone any planned field trips or outings to areas with large crowds of people.	Go to Child Care Guidance for more information.	What are the recommendations for cleaning a child care facility?	Follow regular cleaning protocols and use an EPA-registered disinfectant that is active against coronaviruses.  Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces throughout the day and at night.	Keep a designated bin for separating mouthed toys and maintain awareness of children's behaviors.  When a child is done with a mouthed toy, remove it, place it in a toy bin that is inaccessible to other children, and wash hands.  Clean and sanitize toys before returning to children's area.	Clean and sanitize all toys at the end of the day.	Consider removing soft toys that cannot be easily cleaned during the coronavirus outbreak.  Soft toys that are machine-washable should be washed often at the warmest temperature recommended on the label and dried thoroughly.	Go to COVID-19: Guidance for more information.	Are child care facilities closed?	Child care centers in North Carolina are not required to close at this time.  Child care centers should stay informed of NCDHHS' guidance for child care settings.  This includes a ban on mass gatherings of more than 10 people and directs everyone to physically stay at least six feet apart from others.  Other recommendations include:	Canceling or reducing large events and gatherings, such as assemblies and field trips.	Limiting inter-school interactions.	Considering distance or e-learning in some settings.	Considering dismissals if staff or absenteeism impacts the ability to remain open.  Short-term closures may also be necessary to facilitate public health investigation and/or cleaning if a case is diagnosed in a child or staff member.	What is being done to encourage employers to allow their employees to telework and/or expand sick leave options?	NCDHHS recommends that employers and employees use teleworking technologies to the greatest extent possible, stagger work schedules, and consider canceling non-essential travel to reduce and slow the spread of COVID-19 infection.  Executive Order 121 bans gatherings of more than 10 people and directs everyone to physically stay at least 6 feet apart from others.	Other information for North Carolina businesses can be found here, including frequently asked questions.	Are restaurants and bars open for business?	Governor Roy Cooper announced that North Carolina restaurants and bars were closed to sit-down service and limited to take-out or delivery orders starting at 5 p.m March 17, 2020.  Restaurants and bars can provide take-out and delivery services.	Grocery stores, gas stations, and convenience stores, are exempt from this order and will remain open, though they may not serve sit-down food.	Learn more about COVID-19: Businesses and Employers or Guidance for Restaurants.	Where can I get the latest information on COVID-19?	Visit the NCDHHS website, ,and check the Updates page.  You should also visit the CDC website for the latest information at.	Who can I call?	Dial 2-1-1 or.  Sign up for updates by texting COVIDNC to.	How does COVID-19 affect public events?	On March 27, Governor Roy Cooper issued Executive Order 121, a statewide Stay at Home Order beginning Monday, March 30, 2020 at 5 p.m until April 29, 2020.  This order directs people to stay at home except to visit essential businesses, to exercise outdoors or to help a family member.  Specifically, the order bans gatherings of more than 10 people and directs everyone to physically stay at least six feet apart from others.	Get more details on the community events page.	Can churches have worship services?	Governor Roy Cooper signed Executive Order 121, effective 5 p.m March 30, that allows individuals to attend their places of worship if they follow the mass gathering ban and do not have more than 10 people assembled.  )Social distancing should be practiced.	Places of worship are encouraged to stream their services online to accommodate people complying with the Order.	Get more details community events page and go to Mass Gatherings Guidance for additional information.	What about planned wedding ceremonies or receptions?	Governor Roy Cooper signed Executive Order 121, effective 5 p.m March 30, that reduces the size of gatherings to 10 people.  View frequently asked questions.	Go to Mass Gatherings Guidance for more information.	Can funerals be held?	A funeral home can continue to conduct retail business in assisting clients with funeral arrangements.  To slow the spread of coronavirus disease )and reduce the number of people infected, gatherings of more than 50 people are prohibited under Executive Order 120 issued on March 23.  Executive Order 121, effective 5 p.m March 30, does not reduce the number of people who may gather, but individuals should practice social distancing.	)Go to Mass Gatherings Guidance for more information.	What are coronaviruses?	Coronaviruses are a large group of viruses that can cause illness in animals and humans.  Some coronaviruses commonly circulate in the United States and usually cause upper respiratory symptoms such as cough or runny nose, although some can cause more serious illness.  The 2019 novel )coronavirus causes the illness coronavirus disease 2019.	)What is COVID-19?	Coronavirus Disease 2019 )is a disease that was identified in late 2019 and was declared a pandemic on March 11.  COVID-19 is an international, national and North Carolina public health emergency.	Wash hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds at a time.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid close contact with people who are ill.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.	Do not reuse tissue after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.	Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched.	How does COVID-19 spread?	Coronaviruses like COVID-19 are most often spread through the air by coughing or sneezing, through close personal contact )or through touching your nose, mouth or eyes before washing your hands.  Learn more from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention )about how COVID-19 spreads and how to protect yourself and your community from getting and spreading respiratory illnesses.	Symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, cough and shortness of breath.  Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure.	The CDC recommends you stay home and separate yourself from other people in the home as much as possible if:	Before going to a health care provider, clinic, hospital or emergency room, call ahead to describe your symptoms and how you might have been exposed to the virus.  In the event of an emergency call 9-1-1.	COVID-19 is a respiratory illness with symptoms similar to the flu.  Symptoms are typically mild to moderate, but there have been cases of severe illness and death due to the virus.  The following symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure.	For people who think they might have COVID-19 and have mild symptoms, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention now recommends they stay home and call their doctor if they need medical advice.  Learn more in this NCDHHS fact sheet in English and Spanish.  When people with mild illness leave their homes to get tested, they could expose themselves to COVID-19 if they do not already have it.  If they do have COVID-19, they can give it to someone else, including people who are high risk and health care providers who will be needed to care for people with more severe illness.  In addition, because there is no treatment for COVID-19, a test will not change what someone with mild symptoms will do.	Anyone with more serious symptoms should call their doctor or 911 right away.  More serious symptoms can include shortness of breath, difficulty breathing, chest pain or pressure, confusion or blue lips.	People who are sick with COVID-19 or believe they might have it should stay home and separate themselves from other people in the home as much as possible.  They can go back to their normal activities when they can answer YES to all the following questions:	Has it been at least 7 days since you first had symptoms?	Have you been without fever for three days )without any medicine for fever?	Are your other symptoms improved?	Household members and people who have been in close contact with someone who has had symptoms of COVID-19 should stay home as much as possible for 14 days and monitor themselves for symptoms.  Close contact means within six feet for at least 10 minutes.  If they start having symptoms of COVID-19, they should take the same steps to prevent spreading it.	Coronaviruses like COVID-19 are most often spread through the air by coughing or sneezing, through close personal contact )or through touching your nose, mouth or eyes before washing your hands.  NCDHHS recommends that persons experiencing fever and cough should stay at home and not go out until their symptoms have completely resolved.	The Centers of Disease Control and Prevention )has actions you can take to prevent others from getting sick.  This includes:	Avoiding contact with others.	Covering your mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing.	Not traveling or going to school or work while sick.	Washing your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	These are protective measures used to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among people who may have been exposed.	Self-monitoring is for those that may have been exposed to a person with COVID-19.  They should monitor themselves for symptoms.  )Self-monitoring means people should monitor themselves for fever by taking their temperatures twice a day and remain alert for cough or difficulty breathing.  If they develop symptoms during the self-monitoring period, they should self-isolate, limit contact with others, and seek medical advice by telephone.	Quarantine is for people who were exposed to a person with a confirmed case of COVID-19 but are not experiencing symptoms.  Contact your local health department or medical provider if you are unsure if you should self-quarantine.	Isolation separates people who are sick from those who are well.  People who have tested positive for COVID-19 in North Carolina are in isolation.	Learn more about testing and treatment for COVID-19 in North Carolina.	The NC State Laboratory of Public Health )can perform testing for the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019.  )North Carolina is using the test kit developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.	)COVID-19 tests are available as needed, and it is not necessary for everyone to be tested for COVID-19 at this time.	If you have been tested for COVID-19, please talk to the provider or laboratory that performed the testing about when and how you will receive your test results.  Your test results will not be available from North Carolina Poison Control or other agencies.	NCDHHS has expanded testing criteria for COVID-19.  Only those who meet the following criteria should ask their doctor or local health department about being testing for COVID-19 through the NCSLPH: Some commercial labs are now conducting tests.  CDC provides recommended criteria to guide decisions on testing, but health care providers are able to order COVID-19 testing for individuals as they see fit.	If you think you need a COVID-19 test:	If you feel you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, follow CDC guidelines to prevent further spread.  Most people who get COVID-19 will recover without needing medical care.  The CDC recommends that you stay home if you have mild symptoms, such as fever and cough without shortness of breath or difficulty breathing.  Learn more in this NCDHHS fact sheet in English and Spanish.	NCDHHS is working closely with local health departments and health care providers to provide ongoing guidance for when testing is appropriate.  This information is changing regularly and will be updated as necessary.	Individuals without health insurance, who are not feeling well, should:	Call your nearest Federally Qualified Health Center.  )If you feel you may have COVID-19, be sure to disclose that when you call to obtain an appointment.  FQHCs are community-based health care providers that receive federal funds to provide needed health services in communities across the state.	If you are not able to be seen at an FQHC, call your local health department.  Free and charitable clinics may also be able to provide assistance.  A list of these resources, including contact information, is provided by the Office of Rural Health.	If you are having a medical emergency, call 911 or call ahead then go to the emergency room.	There is no specific treatment for COVID-19.  Most people with illnesses caused by coronaviruses like COVID-19 will recover on their own.  However, there are some things you can do to relieve your symptoms, including:	Taking pain and fever medications.	)Using a humidifier or taking a hot shower to ease a sore throat and cough.	Drinking plenty of liquids and stay home and rest.	Follow instructions from your local health department and health care provider for appropriate care.	Medications and treatments for COVID-19 are being investigated, including through clinical trials in North Carolina and across the nation.  A clinical trial is a type of research study used to test if a drug or medical device is both safe and effective for human use.  Registered trials for drugs being studied for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19 can be found at.	To find clinical trials happening specifically in NC, you may specify your search through by location.  Additionally, many academic medical centers update clinical trials occurring at their institutions on their respective websites.	On Friday, March 27, 2020 Governor Roy Cooper signed Executive Order 121, ordering North Carolinians to remain in their homes except for performing essential work and essential activities such as taking care of others, obtaining necessary supplies, and for health and safety purposes.	This Stay at Home Order will help slow the spread of COVID-19 and prevent the medical system from being overwhelmed by keeping individuals from being exposed to the virus and keeping those who have the virus from spreading it to others.	Below are frequently asked questions and answers.  In addition, individuals should check with local governments to determine whether additional restrictions have been imposed in their local jurisdictions to limit the spread of COVID-19.  Please note that Executive Order 121 modifies some sections of previous Executive Orders, but sections not modified are still in effect.	This information is subject to change in light of new CDC guidance and additional Executive Orders or local government declarations.	For a full list of essential businesses, please see the Order.	What does "Stay at Home" mean?	It means people should stay at their residence and limit social interactions and travel for essential activities or essential business purposes.	When does the Order take effect?	The Order takes effect on Monday, March 30 at 5:00 PM.	When will this Order be lifted?	This Order is valid for 30 days through April 29, 2020 but can be revised or extended.	Is this Executive Order mandatory or is it just guidance?	This Order is mandatory.  All persons and other entities are required to comply if they do not fall within the exemptions that are specified in the Order.	How will this Executive Order be enforced?	Governor Cooper is seeking voluntary cooperation from all state residents and businesses to ensure the health and safety of our communities.  If voluntary cooperation is not achieved, state and local law enforcement officers have the authority to enforce the Order.	Various local counties and cities have issued their own shelter in place orders.  How do the state and local orders correlate with one another?	People in North Carolina must abide by this statewide Order.  To the extent that a local order contains more restrictive requirements, the more restrictive local Order must be followed.	Can I leave my home to visit friends or family members?	Individuals may leave their homes to care for a family member or friend, or to help their family member or friend get essential goods or receive necessary health care.  Individuals should not visit with friends or family members if there is no urgent need.	What if I require medical attention?	Individuals may leave their homes to receive necessary medical care.  If you have symptoms of COVID-19, please follow guidance provided by the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.  If you have mild symptoms, stay home and call your doctor.	Can I leave my home to exercise?	People are encouraged to maintain healthy lifestyles, including outdoor recreational activity, such as walking pets and jogging.  While exercising, individuals should maintain social distancing and continue to take protective measures to maintain their personal health and wellbeing.	Does this Order prohibit outside group exercise?	As long as the group abides by the mass gatherings provision in the Order )and maintains adequate social distancing, this activity is not prohibited, but it is strongly discouraged.	What if my home is not a safe environment?	Individuals whose residences are unsafe or become unsafe, such as victims of domestic violence, are permitted and urged to leave their home and stay at a safe alternate location, which can include a hotel or shelter.	Can I take my kids to the park?	Unless your local jurisdiction has closed parks, people may go to public parks and open outdoor recreation areas while following social distancing and mass gathering guidelines.  Public playgrounds and their equipment are closed for use statewide.	Are the entertainment, personal care, and grooming businesses that are closed under Executive Order 120 supposed to remain closed?	Businesses prohibited from operating under Executive Order 120 shall remain closed.	What businesses may remain open?	Essential businesses as defined in the Order may remain open.  Other non-essential businesses must remain closed unless permitted by the Secretary of Revenue.	Establishments required to close under previous executive orders must remain closed.	Does my business need any documentation to continue operating?	Businesses and not-for-profit organizations that are deemed essential as defined by the Order do not need any documentation from the State to continue operations.  Employees are not required to have specific documentation to report to work under this Order.	What if my business is not listed as essential and I cannot conduct business operations and maintain social distancing between employees?	If your business is not included in the list of Essential Businesses and Operations and you believe it is essential, you can submit an application to the North Carolina Department of Revenue.  )NCDOR will review applications to determine whether the business is necessary to properly respond to this COVID-19 pandemic.  NCDOR will post on its website a point of contact and procedures for businesses seeking an essential designation.	What if my business does not fall within an exception and must close?	Businesses that are required to cease all activities are still allowed to continue Minimum Basic Operations.  These operations include activities necessary to maintain the value of the business's inventory; preserve the condition of the business's physical plant and equipment; ensure security; process payroll and employee benefits, or related functions; and, activities to support employees who are working remotely.  However, employees must comply with social distancing requirements, to the extent possible, while carrying out such operations.	If my business was previously required to close under an Executive Order or a local Stay at Home order, are there any circumstances under this Order that would allow me to re-open?	No.	Does this Order prohibit operations of child care centers and other child care providers?	No.  Although child care providers are urged to remain open for first responders and essential employees, they are also open to the general public.  All open child care providers must follow the NCDHHS emergency child care operations and financing guidance.	Are religious functions allowed?	Religious gatherings are subject to the mass gathering ban and may not have more than 10 people.  Participants should practice social distancing.	Are weddings allowed?	Weddings are subject to the mass gathering ban and may not have more than 10 people.	Participants should practice social distancing.	Are funerals allowed?	Funerals are time-sensitive events and may not have more than 50 people.  Participants should practice social distancing.	Can I still attend religious services?	The Order allows individuals to attend their places of worship if they follow the mass gathering ban and do not have more than 10 people assembled.  Social distancing should be practiced.	Places of worship are encouraged to stream their services online to accommodate people complying with the Order.	Are car dealerships open during the emergency?	Car dealerships, and other places that sell automobiles, are essential businesses that may provide relief for those who have transportation issues during the emergency and are permitted to remain open.	Can I still mail items and get deliveries?	Yes.  The postal service and private mail and delivery services are essential businesses and will remain open.	Can I still go to my substance abuse treatment groups )or other group counseling sessions?	Group counseling sessions are subject to the mass gathering ban and may not have more than 10 people.  Participants attending in person should practice social distancing.  Group counseling services are urged to conduct meetings remotely if they are equipped to do so.  Groups should make accommodations for remote support to the maximum extent feasible.	Can I visit loved ones in the hospital, nursing home, skilled nursing facility, or other residential care facility?	You may visit a hospital or other healthcare facility only to obtain health care services and supplies.  Do not visit a nursing home, skilled nursing facility, residential care facility or any other long term care facility unless it is an end-of-life visit.	Can I carry out a court-ordered visit with my kids?	Yes.  To the extent possible, maintain social distancing with individuals other than your child and limit meetings to places and activities that are permitted under this Order, such as outdoor parks.	What if I still have to go to work?	Businesses have been encouraged to implement remote working policies for their employees.  If you have been designated essential by your employer, you should continue to go to work and practice social distancing to the extent possible.	Where can I report a business that is operating in violation of the Order?	Governor Cooper is seeking voluntary cooperation from all state residents and businesses to ensure the health and safety of our communities.  If voluntary cooperation is not achieved, state and local law enforcement officers have the authority to enforce the Order.	Are gun stores allowed to operate?	Gun stores implementing social distancing requirements for employees and customers as defined in the order may remain open.	Are golf courses allowed to stay open?	Golf courses implementing social distancing requirements for employees and customers as defined in the order may remain open.	What is the current number of people that can gather under the mass gathering requirements?	A mass gathering is defined as no more than ten )people.	What are social distancing requirements?	Facilitating online or remote access by customers if possible.