	What is a COVID-19?	COVID-19 is a respiratory illness caused by a new, or "novel" coronavirus that was not identified in humans before December 2019.  Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that usually cause mild respiratory illnesses such as the common cold.  Some coronaviruses have caused more severe illness, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome )and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome.	)Most people will recover on their own, but some people can develop more serious complications, such as pneumonia, and require medical care or hospitalization.  Older people and people with chronic illnesses are more likely to get very sick from COVID-19.	The novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is spreading from person to person and the number of cases detected in Washington, nationally, and in other countries is growing.	The risk of COVID-19 is not connected to race, ethnicity or nationality.  Share accurate information with others to keep rumors and misinformation from spreading.	What is the current state of COVID-19?	Washington state and many other parts of the country and world are experiencing COVID-19 outbreaks.  During this time, your life may be disrupted in a variety of ways.  The state has taken action to prevent the spread of COVID-19 by prohibiting people from gathering, whether at school, work, or other settings.	)At this time, it is important to keep distance from others as much as possible.  If you have to work, go to the grocery store, or get prescriptions, keep 6 feet of distance between you and others.	See our Resources and Recommendations for more information on staying healthy at home and at work.	Get information about support available for yourself or your business at Washington State Coronavirus )Response Business and Workers page.	How does the coronavirus spread?	It is most commonly spread from an infected person to others through:	The air by coughing and sneezing Close personal contact, such as touching or shaking hands Touching an object or surface with the virus on it, then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes before washing your hands Rarely, fecal contamination with coronavirus present People are thought to be most contagious when they are the sickest, though some spread is possible before people show symptoms.	What are the symptoms?	Symptoms are similar to flu or colds and may include: These symptoms generally appear 2 to 14 days after exposure.	What is the treatment?	There are no specific treatments for COVID-19.	What should I do if I have COVID-19 symptoms?	We have guidance available for people who have or think they may have COVID-19:	Should I get tested?	See our Testing for COVID-19 page.	Should I wear a facemask?	We do not recommend you wear a mask unless you are sick or taking care of others who are sick.  If you are feeling sick, wearing a mask can help prevent you from spreading illness to others.  We recommend you wear a facemask if you are sick and going to the doctor.	What is a confirmed case?	A confirmed case is defined as a person who has tested positive for 2019 novel coronavirus.	What is a close contact?	A close contact is a person who has been within about 6 feet of a person with confirmed novel coronavirus infection for a prolonged period of time or has had direct contact with secretions from a person with confirmed novel coronavirus infection.  The definition of "close contact" used in Washington is the same as the CDC definition.	How can I protect myself and others?	There are steps you can take to reduce your risk of getting and spreading coronavirus.  Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water are not available.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze, then throw the tissue in the trash and wash your hands.	Clean and disinfect objects and surfaces.	Stay home if you are sick.  Stay home as much as possible.  Follow Governor Inslee's Stay Home, Stay Healthy order.	Stay six feet away from others.	Follow recommendations from your local health department.	How can I take care of myself and loved ones during this time?	Getting plenty of rest, drinking fluids, eating healthy foods, and managing your stress may help you prevent getting COVID-19 and recover from it if you do.	If you smoke or vape, consider trying to quit.  People who smoke or vape may be more likely to develop serious health complications from COVID-19.  Smoking weakens the immune system, making it harder for your body to fight off viral infections.  Need help quitting?  Call 1-800-QUIT-NOW or visit our How to Quit page.	Watch your children for symptoms of COVID-19.  If your child shows symptoms of COVID-19, separate them from others immediately.  If they have been at a child care center recently, notify the center.	Set up a separate room for sick household members.  Clean the room regularly and make sure they have clean disposable facemasks to use.	)Check in with family and friends who live alone-- especially those with chronic diseases.  If you live alone, ask your friends and family to check in with you if you become sick.	Stay connected to your loved ones over the phone, via text messages, email, or using video chat programs.	Check out the resources on our Resources and Recommendations page under "Mental Health and Personal Impact."	What can I do to help?	Everyone can do their part to help us respond to the COVID-19 outbreak:	We should all do our part to protect people in our community from being harassed or discriminated against as a result of bigotry.  COVID-19 is not tied to one racial or ethnic group.	Check out How you can help for information on how to volunteer, donate, and more.	Get a flu shot if you are able to, help stop the spread of germs, and take flu antivirals if prescribed.  Keeping people out of the doctor's office for the flu will allow our health care providers to serve the growing number of people coming in to get tested for COVID-19.	Can I still travel?	CDC recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential international travel.  CDC also has a list of considerations if you are planning to travel within the United States.  For updated CDC guidance on current travel advisories, visit the CDC's Travel Health page and the U.S State Department's travel advisories.	What is novel coronavirus?	Novel coronavirus )is a new virus strain spreading from person-to-person in China and other countries, including the United States.  In most instances, cases outside of China have been associated with travelers from China.  Health experts are concerned because little is known about this new virus and it has the potential to cause severe illness and pneumonia in some people.	How does novel coronavirus spread?	Health experts are still learning the details.  Currently, it is thought to spread:	via respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.	between people who are in close contact with one another.	)How severe is novel coronavirus?	Experts are still learning about the range of illness from novel coronavirus.  Reported cases have ranged from mild illness )to severe pneumonia that requires hospitalization.  So far, deaths have been reported mainly in older adults who had other health conditions.	What are the symptoms?	People who have been diagnosed with novel coronavirus have reported symptoms that may appear in as few as 2 days or as long as 14 days after exposure to the virus.	Symptoms include: fever, cough, and difficulty breathing.	Who is at risk for novel coronavirus?	Currently the risk to the general public is low.  At this time, there are a small number of individual cases in the U.S To minimize the risk of spread, health officials are working with healthcare providers to promptly identify and evaluate any suspected cases.	Travelers to and from certain areas of the world may be at increased risk.  Although coronavirus originated geographically in Wuhan, China, the disease is not specific to any ethnic group.  Chinese ancestry --or any other ancestry --does not make a person more vulnerable to this illness.	How can I prevent from getting novel coronavirus?	If you are traveling overseas )follow the CDC's guidance: wwwnc.cdc.govtravel.	Right now, the novel coronavirus has not been spreading widely in the United States, so there are no additional precautions recommended for the general public.  Steps you can take to prevent spread of flu and the common cold will also help prevent coronavirus:	Wash hands often with soap and water.  If not available, use hand sanitizer.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid contact with people who are sick.	Stay home while you are sick and avoid close contact with others.	Cover your mouth/nose with a tissue or sleeve when coughing or sneezing.	Currently, there are no vaccines available to prevent novel coronavirus infections.	How is novel coronavirus treated?	There are no medications specifically approved for coronavirus.  Most people with mild coronavirus illness will recover on their own by drinking plenty of fluids, resting, and taking pain and fever medications.  However, some cases develop pneumonia and require medical care or hospitalization.