	Has the new coronavirus already been detected in Austria?	Up to date information on the spread of the coronavirus can be viewed at.	How many cases are there worldwide?	International figures are available from the website of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control at.	How high is the mortality rate estimated to be, particularly in comparison to influenza?	Currently a mortality rate of approx 2.3% is being assumed.	The mortality rate of seasonal influenza varies.  According to estimates by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ),every year a total of around 15,000 --75,000 persons die prematurely in the EU, Britain, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein of causes related to influenza.  In Austria, a long-term average of around 1,500 persons die each year as a consequence of influenza or influenza-like illnesses.	How well equipped are Austrian hospitals with isolation wards, acute care beds, protective masks and protective personal equipment?	According to information from the provinces and hospitals themselves, Austrian hospitals are well equipped with protective masks and personal protective equipment and have enough in stock.	What is the maximum number of coronavirus tests which can be carried out per day?  Laboratory capacities are being continuously extended and can thus be quickly adapted to the respective needs.  The health care authorities here are very well prepared.  Initial test results are ready within a few hours.	Which measures will be taken when coronavirus infections are established in Austria?	The Austrian authorities are very well prepared.  If a SARS-CoV-2 case also occurs in Austria, relevant measures )will be taken to contain the spread of the disease and to ensure the treatment of those affected.  All of the measures are designed to make sure that as few people in Austria as possible are infected by the virus.	What will happen to people infected with the coronavirus?	Persons who are found to have the SARS-CoV-2 virus will be isolated in a hospital and treated.  Those persons with whom they have been in contact will be traced, informed about the situation and also quarantined if necessary.	How can we protect persons with weak immune systems in Austria, such as children and older people?	Taking personal hygiene measures as one would during the influenza season is recommended.  The most important and effective measures to protect oneself and others from being infected with respiratory viruses are frequent hand washing, correct cough etiquette and maintaining a minimum distance )to persons who might be infected.	Can we expect there to be infected persons in Austria who do not show any symptoms?	There is currently no evidence of this.	Who can I turn to in my province?	Comprehensive information on the subject of health can be found on the website of your province:	)Is the cancellation of events in Austria being considered?	The authorities will keep a close eye on how the situation develops.  Principally it would be possible to cancel events on the basis of the Epidemics Act.	For further details, you can view the text of the Epidemics Act here:	)Could schools and universities be closed?	This also depends on how the situation unfolds.  Closing schools on the basis of the Epidemics Act would also be possible.  In all such measures it is important for the authorities to examine whether they are reasonable and necessary.	For further details, you can view the text of the Epidemics Act here:	)Which symptoms does the illness cause?	Most infections with the new coronavirus take a benign course.	Signs of infection are as follows:	A high temperature A cough Shortness of breath Respiratory problems.	It is only in more severe cases that the infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.	How contagious is this new coronavirus?	The virus is passed on from one person to another largely by droplet infection; in other words by coughing, sneezing or saliva.	How dangerous is this new coronavirus?	It is still too soon to say how exactly dangerous the virus is.  Currently, the new coronavirus seems to be significantly less dangerous than MERS )and SARS.  )Currently a mortality rate of up to three percent is being assumed for the new coronavirus.  )Similarly to seasonal influenza viruses ),older people and those with weakened immune systems are primarily affected.  It has been estimated that an infected person can pass on the virus to 2-3 others.  In the case of measles, however, this number can rise to 18.	By comparison: In 2018 in the WHO region of Europe, 84,462 cases of measles were recorded, the highest number of cases in the last ten years.  This figure is three times as high as in 2017 ),and fifteen times the number of cases in 2016.  )In 2018, 74 people died of measles, 34 of them in the EU ),and otherwise predominantly in Ukraine )and Serbia.	)In 2019 the situation with regard to measles became even more serious throughout Europe, and worldwide the number of recorded measles infections in the first half of 2019 )was the highest since 2006.	In the EU/EEA Member States, 13,207 cases of measles were recorded in 2019, and there was no country without any cases.  As at 15 January 2019, a total of 151 measles cases had been recorded for 2019 in Austria, and all provinces were affected.  In 2019, ten fatal cases of measles were recorded in the EU/EEA, none of them in Austria.	In 2018, 77 cases of measles were recorded in Austria, in 2017 95, in 2016 27 and in 2015 309.	Almost every year in the autumn/winter ),there is an influenza epidemic during which 5-15% of the population become infected and many of them ill.  With considerable annual fluctuations, the average influenza mortality in Austria is over 15 cases per 100,000 persons, which is a total of over 1,000 deaths per year.	How long does it last until I notice that I have been infected?  How long does the incubation period really last?	According to current information, both the WHO and the ECDC use an incubation period of two weeks in their case definitions.	The incubation period is the time which passes between infection with the virus and the start of symptoms.	Is it possible to get tested for the coronavirus?	The decision on whether you are a suspected case and require testing has to be taken by a doctor.  The test results are ready in a few hours.	What happens when an infection with the coronavirus is established?	In a suspected case, the health authorities proceed according to special safety criteria which have been developed by experts, are based on international guidelines and recommended by the Ministry of Health.  An infected person is isolated, and persons they have been in contact with are traced, informed about the situation and might also be quarantined depending on the situation.	All of the measures are designed to make sure that as few people in Austria as possible are infected by the virus.	What will happen if a larger number of COVID-2019 infections occurs?	The obligation which has existed since 27 January 2020 to report suspected cases, actual cases and fatalities in accordance with the Epidemics Act is still valid.  On 1 February 2020, another regulation in relation to the Epidemics Act entered into force, whereby it is possible to limit not only the contact with other persons of those who are already ill or suspected cases, but also that of persons who do not yet exhibit any symptoms.	The possible measures are laid down in the Epidemics Act: they include, for example, measures to isolate people who are symptomatic, who are suspected cases or are suspected of being carriers, measures against the formation of larger crowds of people, or the closing of educational facilities or the restriction of movement of people in specific localities.  See also.	These measures are usually taken independently by the respective competent district administrative authorities on the basis of the delegation of federal authority.	It is also possible for the Minister of Health to lay down appropriate requirements via instructions to the provincial governors.	How is the illness treated?	There is no vaccination.  Treatment is symptomatic, in other words it reduces the severity of the symptoms, for example via medication to lower a high temperature.	How long will it take to develop a vaccination?	The WHO is currently assuming a period of around a year until there is a sufficient amount of SARS-CoV-2 vaccine available for the general population.	Does a two-week period of quarantine suffice for suspected cases when the incubation period is much longer?	According to current information, both the WHO and the ECDC use an incubation period of two weeks in their case definitions.	How can infected persons who exhibit no symptoms be prevented from infecting others?	The population is generally being made aware of the special need for hygiene, also due to the current flu season.  This covers sneezing and coughing etiquette including the use of tissues as well as frequent hand washing and disinfection.	Can cats or dogs also be infected by the coronavirus?	Until now there have been no indications that domestic cats or dogs can become infected.	How can I protect myself against the coronavirus?	As in the case of seasonal influenza, the following measures are recommended:	Wash your hands several times a day with soap and water or an alcohol-based gel; Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue )when you cough or sneeze; Dispose of the tissue without delay and then wash your hands; Avoid direct contact with infected persons.	The most important and effective measures to protect oneself and others from being infected with respiratory viruses are frequent hand washing, correct cough etiquette and maintaining a minimum distance )to persons who might be infected.  These measures generally apply also during the influenza season.	The following video by the Medical University of Vienna provides tips for proper hand hygiene.	What does correct hand hygiene involve?	The most important and effective measures to protect oneself and others from being infected with respiratory viruses are frequent hand washing, correct cough etiquette and maintaining a minimum distance )to persons who might be infected.  These measures generally apply also during the influenza season.	The following video by the Medical University of Vienna provides tips for proper hand hygiene.	Can masks )offer any protection?	Disposable face masks are not an effective protection against airborne viruses or bacteria.  However, they can contribute towards reducing the risk of spreading the virus via droplets from sneezing or coughing.	The most important and effective measures to protect oneself and others from being infected with respiratory viruses are frequent hand washing, correct cough etiquette and maintaining a minimum distance )to persons who might be infected.  These measures generally apply also during the influenza season.  At present, wearing face masks is not recommended for the healthy general population either by the World Health Organisation )or the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.	)In the aforementioned video by the Medical University of Vienna you can find tips for proper hand hygiene.	I can't get any face masks in my pharmacy/where I live.  What can I do?	The most important and effective measures to protect oneself and others from being infected with respiratory viruses are frequent hand washing, correct cough etiquette and maintaining a minimum distance )to persons who might be infected.  These measures generally apply also during the influenza season.  At present, wearing face masks is not recommended to the healthy general population either by the World Health Organisation )or the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.	)What do I need to do if I think I am a suspected case, or have had contact with symptomatic persons, etc?.	If you have symptoms or are afraid you have become ill: stay at home, minimise contact with others, call the health hotline )on 1450, and please follow the advice given exactly.	Which legislative measures have been taken in Austria until now?	A regulation was adopted on the introduction of a reporting obligation for suspected and actual cases of 2019-nCoV as well as deaths.	In addition, the regulation on the isolation of ill persons, those suspected of being ill, and those suspected of being infected, and the marking of houses and flats ),Federal Law Gazette no 39/1915, was amended by Federal Law Gazette II no 21/2020.  The measures have to be imposed by the competent district administrative authority.  This enables quarantine measures to be taken.  The regulation makes it possible to limit not only the contact with other persons of those who are ill or are suspected cases, but also that of persons who do not yet exhibit any symptoms.		):How does the cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health function?  Which ministry has which responsibilities?	In cases of national crisis and disaster relief management, the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for such issues, calls meetings of the Penta++ group.  In these meetings, all of the relevant ministries and emergency services carry out consultations on how to proceed.  The Ministry of Health plays this leading role in the current situation.	The operative responsibility, for example in relation to the implementation of the Epidemics Act, is held by the district administrative authorities on the basis of the delegation of federal authority.  If required, the district administrative authorities can deploy the police to enforce the law.  The Minster of Social Affairs, Health, Long-Term Care and Consumer Protection is effectively the supreme health authority, and thus can, if required, issue instructions to provincial governors regarding enforcement.	Are there travel warnings for the countries affected by the coronavirus?	All travel information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Italy is available here ):All travel information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for China is available here:	)Travel information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for all countries is available here:	)I was in Italy recently.  What should I do?	If you were in one of the affected regions )and have symptoms such as a high temperature, breathing difficulties and a cough:	Please remain at home Call your doctor or the Health Hotline 1450 and inform the doctor about your journey to Italy )and follow the doctor's instructions 	I'm travelling to Italy soon.  Which precautions should I take?	Travellers to Italy should note the following during their stay:	Wash your hands regularly with soap and water or an alcohol-based gel Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or the inside of your elbow )when you cough or sneeze, dispose of the tissue as soon as possible and then wash your hands Avoid contact with infected persons who have a high temperature and a cough If you develop symptoms such as a high temperature, a cough, a sore throat or breathing difficulties, seek medical help and describe the route of your journey.	Why are border controls not being introduced on the Italian border?	There is currently no scientific evidence on the usefulness of border checks in the case of pandemics.	I was in China recently.  Do I have to get tested?	If you develop symptoms such as a high temperature, a cough or breathing difficulties during your journey or within two weeks after your return, the following procedure applies:	Please remain at home Call your doctor or the Health Hotline 1450 and inform the doctor about your journey to China and follow the doctor's instructions.	Do Chinese tourists and travellers from China pose a risk?	As of now, travellers entering Austria directly from China by plane are checked with a temperature scanner in order to check for illness which could have manifested itself during the flight from Beijing to Vienna.  In addition, passengers are also examined before leaving China, and the authorities there also check whether they have been in the crisis region around Wuhan recently.	As is the case with all infectious diseases, long-distance travelling bears a certain risk for the worldwide spreading of pathogens.  Currently however, no restrictions on travel or commerce are being recommended by the WHO.	What happens when someone suffering from coronavirus disease lands in Austria?	If suspicious symptoms are noticed in a passenger on board a landing aircraft, the ground staff are informed and special preparations are made.	In a suspected case, the health authorities proceed according to special safety criteria which have been developed by experts, are based on international guidelines and recommended by the Ministry of Health.  A person showing symptoms is isolated, and persons they have been in contact with are traced, informed about the situation and might also be quarantined depending on the situation.	Why are direct flights from China still not being prohibited?	On 27 February there is one more direct flight from China.  After that, direct flights are only planned again from 21 March onwards.	Can the coronavirus be passed on by goods from China?	There is no evidence that goods represent a risk.  The cases diagnosed in Europe until now all indicate that there was close contact with an infected person as the source of the illness.  How long the virus remains on surfaces is as yet unclear.  If one coughs into one's hand or sneezes and then touches a door handle or a phone, and then someone else does, the virus can theoretically be passed on in this way.	Can I go for a meal in Chinese restaurant?	Yes, there is no danger.	I am a businessperson.  Where can I obtain information for businesses?	For businesses which have questions in relation to the coronavirus, the Economic Chamber )has established a main contact point in Vienna.  The Coronavirus Infopoint has brought together all available information from at home and abroad on this issue: