	What is a coronavirus and COVID-19?	Coronaviruses can make humans sick.  Some coronaviruses can cause illnesses similar to the common cold while others cause more serious diseases, including Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome )and Middle East respiratory syndrome.	)What are the symptoms of COVID-19?	Symptoms include )fever, cough, sore throat, fatigue and shortness of breath or difficulty breathing.  Shortness of breath or difficulty breathing is a sign of possible pneumonia that requires prompt medical attention.	It can take up to 14 days for symptoms to show after a person has been infected.  This means that passengers may arrive in Australia feeling well, however, symptoms may appear days later.	What is Australia doing?	To capture ill travellers who may have been exposed to COVID-19, the Department of Health has included additional questions on the Traveller with Illness Checklist )for biosecurity officers to administer.  The Department of Agriculture, Water and the Environment is in contact with airlines and international vessels to ensure compliance with pre-arrival reporting requirements of ill travellers.	The Department of Health is also providing additional communication material for travellers at all international ports.  This material informs travellers of the symptoms of COVID-19 and encourages them to report to biosecurity officers if they are experiencing symptoms while in the port environment.	Travel bans are in place for all foreign nationals as of 20 March 2020.  Australian citizens, permanent residents and their immediate families and New Zealand citizens usually resident in Australia may be subject to enhanced health screening measures at the border and are required to isolate for 14 days after arriving in Australia.	In addition, as of 25 March 2020, bans will be enforced against non-essential international travel.	The Australian Department of Health is closely monitoring this situation in collaboration with the WHO and the states and territories, and will keep border agencies informed.	Border workers should continue to follow existing processes for screening ill travellers arriving at our international air and sea ports using the updated TIC.	This includes identification of ill travellers, isolation and referral to human biosecurity officers where indicated.	How does COVID-19 spread?	COVID-19 is most likely to spread from person to person through:	touching objects or surfaces that are contaminated from a cough or sneeze from a person with a confirmed infection, and then touching your mouth or face.	There is emerging evidence which suggests the virus may be spread the day before symptoms develop in some infected persons, which means it may be difficult to know if a person is infected in the early stages.  Risk of infection to border workers from someone who has COVID-19 but is not yet displaying symptoms is still considered low.	How can I reduce my risk?  When should I wear full PPE?	As COVID-19 most likely spreads through direct contact with droplets when an infected person coughs or sneezes, casual contact with travellers who are not showing symptoms is not considered a high risk for infection.	If interviewing an ill traveller or ill crew you should wear a surgical mask, full length disposable gown, gloves and eye protection in accordance with your workplace guidance.	PPE must be used appropriately to be effective.  If you are required to wear PPE, you should be trained in the correct way to put on, remove and dispose of all PPE.  If you are unsure of the process, talk to your supervisor about appropriate guidance.	All used PPE should be placed in a lined bin and disposed of with other waste in the arrivals area of an international port.	The following measures will also help reduce the risk further:	Practise and promote frequent handwashing throughout your shift.  When hand washing facilities are not readily available, alcohol-based hand rub is recommended.  Use according to instructions or receive advice from your supervisor.	If you are regularly handling documents from travellers, it is good practice to use hand sanitiser regularly and avoid touching your face unless your hands are clean.	Where possible, stay 1.5 metres or more away from travellers who are ill.	Practise and promote good respiratory )etiquette.	Undertake appropriate cleaning and disinfection activities.	Use PPE if close contact with an ill traveller is required.	The risk to border staff working at the primary line and biosecurity inspection areas is considered low.  The risk to border staff working in the cargo and mail processing areas and other areas of air and sea ports is considered extremely low.	PPE in the form of gloves, gowns, eye protection or face shields is not considered necessary when performing these roles.  However, frequent handwashing )and cough etiquette should still be practised in this setting.  If a border officer elects to wear disposable gloves, or other PPE items supplied by their agency, 	regular hand hygiene is still required and care must be taken to avoid breaching the glove material.	What should I do if I develop symptoms?	There is no need for alarm, however, the COVID-19 outbreak is a concern.  If you develop symptoms, call a doctor and describe your profession as a border worker with possible contact with travellers from risk areas.  If you are coughing, ask for a medical mask to wear while you are at the doctor.	You should also:	Wash your hands frequently with soap and water, before and after eating, and after going to the toilet.	Cover your cough and sneeze, dispose of tissues, and use alcohol-based hand rub.	If unwell, avoid contact with others.	)Will I be contacted if I have been exposed to someone with COVID-19?	When someone is diagnosed with COVID-19 in Australia, health authorities conduct contact tracing.  Contract tracing is when public health staff contact people who had close contact with the unwell person during their contagious period.  You will be notified by staff if you have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 and you will be given information and advice relevant to your exposure.	Where can I get more information about COVID-19?	For the latest advice, information and resources, go to.	Call the National Coronavirus Health Information Line on 1800 020 080.  It operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week.	The phone number of your state or territory public health agency is available at.	If you have concerns about your health, speak to your doctor.