	Which rules apply to persons travelling to Italy from March 28?	Before boarding, the carrier's staff is required to check the self-certification setting out the following detailed information:	a mobile/land phone number.	All persons entering Italy, whether at an airport, ferry port or railway station, must avoid using public transport and must therefore make arrangements to be picked up, take a taxi, if and as allowed, or hire a car, with or without a driver.	All persons entering Italy are required to self-isolate, including persons with their own transport.  Persons travelling to Italy for work may postpone the start of the self-isolation period by 72 hours ),albeit only if strictly necessary.	All persons entering Italy, including persons with their own transport, are required to report to the local health authorities on arrival at their destination.	All persons entering Italy may self-isolate either at home or other place of their choice.	If a person entering Italy has no place for self-isolation, or is unable to travel to their place of self-isolation ),they will be required to self-isolate at a location established by the Civil Protection Service, at the interested person's expense.	The above rules do not apply to the following persons: cross-border workers, health services personnel, passenger/freight transport crews.	Ordinance by the Ministry of Health, in agreement with the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, issued on 28 March 2020 	What measures are planned in Italy?	By DPCM of 22 March 2020, the government has introduced additional measures to contain and manage the COVID-19 emergency, applicable throughout the country.	The Decree orders the closure of non-essential or non-strategic production activities.  Supermarkets, grocery stores, pharmacies and essential services remain open.	The new rules are effective from 23 March 2020 to 3 April 2020.	The new provisions are additional to those of the DPCM of 11 March and to the Order of the Minister of Health of 20 March 2020 both of which were originally valid until 25 March 2020 and have now been extended to 3 April 2020.	One of the new measures is the Order of 22 March 2020 by the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior, which bans anyone from moving across municipalities by public or private transport, except for non-deferrable and proven work or health reasons or other urgent matters.	Which shops and services are open?	The Dpcm of 11 March 2020, valid from 12 to 25 March 2020, has introduced additional restrictive measures throughout the country to combat the coronavirus emergency.	With the Dpcm of 22 March the new provisions are additional to those of the DPCM of 11 March and to the Order of the Minister of Health of 20 March 2020 both of which were originally valid until 25 March 2020 and have now been extended to 3 April 2020.	The Decree orders the closure of shops, except for those selling basic necessities.	This is the list of businesses that will remain open:	What is the advice for the public in Italy?	The whole of Italy has been declared a protected area by the latest Decree issued by Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte on the evening of 9 March 2020, which extended to the entire national territory the restrictions already in force in Lombardy and the 14 northern provinces most affected by the coronavirus infection.  The new rules came into force on 10 March and will last until 3 April.  The measures include: limitations on the movement of people, the cancellation of all sports events and the shutdown of schools and universities across the country until April 3.	One of the new measures is the Order of 22 March 2020 by the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior, which bans anyone from moving across municipalities by public or private transport, except for non-deferrable and proven work or health reasons or other urgent matters.	All citizens are required to:	leave home only for work, health reasons or other necessities.  People moving about may be required to declare their reasons for leaving the home, and may need to fill in a self-declaration using a form provided by police officers or downloadable from the Internet.  Making false declarations is an offence.	Read the directive of the Minister of the Interior to the Prefects and download the self-declaration form.	all gatherings of people in public places or in places open to the public are forbidden.	senior citizens and people with chronic or multiple health problems or with congenital or acquired immune deficiency are strongly advised to avoid leaving their homes unless strictly necessary, and to avoid crowded places where it is not possible to maintain a safe distance of at least one meter between people.	 it is forbidden for anyone from moving across municipalities by public or private transport, except for non-deferrable and proven work or health reasons or other urgent matters.	people with symptoms of respiratory infection and fever are strongly advised to stay home, limit social contacts as much as possible and contact their doctor.	any person who travelled to Italy, from the 14th day before the date of publication of the Decree of the Prime Minister of 8 March, from COVID-19 affected areas, as identified by the WHO, must self-report to the Prevention Department of their Local Health Authority and to their GP or paediatrician.	If the Prevention Department decides you must be placed under health surveillance and home isolation, you will be required to: maintain self-isolation for 14 days since the last exposure, avoid social contacts, avoid all movements and travel be contactable for surveillance activities.  In this situation, the public health surveillance operator will inform the general practitioner and, if the person is a worker, will issue a declaration to the Social Security Agency ),the employer and the GP, stating that the person has been placed in quarantine for public health reasons, specifying start and end date.	if you develop symptoms while under surveillance, you must: immediately notify your GP/paediatrician and the health surveillance officer; wear the surgical mask that you were given at the start of the health surveillance; keep away from other household members; stay in your room with the door closed ensuring adequate natural ventilation, waiting for the transfer to hospital, if necessary.  You should also follow this simple advice on everyday preventive actions.	Read more:	I have completed my self-isolation period.  What must I do to return to work?	After completing the home isolation period, if you developed no symptoms, you may return to work.  The days you stayed home are covered by the certificate issued at the beginning of the isolation period.  You do not need to submit any additional certificate.	However, your employer may ask you to submit a fitness for work note from your doctor.	Do the national lock-down measures also affect women's shelters and support services?	No.  Women who are the victims of domestic abuse or stalking are not alone.  They can contact the 24-hour domestic abuse helpline 1522.  Moreover, women suffering abuse are considered to be in a situation of 'necessity', and are therefore authorised to move to a women's shelter or counselling centre, in accordance with the Decree of 11 March.	Can I get a prescription from my doctor by email or cell phone message?	Yes.  By Order of 19 March 2020, you can now get the 'Electronic Prescription Number' from your doctor without having to pick up a paper prescription.  This is a further measure to reduce the movement of people and stop the spread of the novel coronavirus infection.	Your doctor may:	send you the prescription by certified e-mail )or ordinary e-mail;	After receiving the Electronic Prescription Number and the tax identification number on your health card, the pharmacist will supply you with the medication.	Can I go to the park or to my holiday home?	No.  The Order issued on 20 March and valid until 25 March has closed down all parks, gardens and playgrounds and bans any outdoor recreational and leisure activities.  However, you are allowed to exercise or walk pets in the vicinity of your home, respecting the minimum distance of one metre from other persons.	On weekends, holidays and on the days immediately before and after, it is forbidden to travel from your home.	)9. Can I get out on my bicycle?	The use of the bicycle, respecting a distance of at least one metre from others, is subject to the restrictions set out in the Decree of the Prime Minister of 9 March.  )The Decree forbids people from moving between different municipalities and within their municipality except for proven work reasons, necessity or health reasons.  If you are stopped for a check, you must provide a self-certification.	You cannot go out on your bike for exercising or training.	Professional and non-professional sports cyclists recognised as being of national interest by CONI and their respective Federations, training for the Olympic Games or national or international competitions, may train in reserved-access sports facilities.  Only sports events and competitions organised by international sporting bodies can take place, in restricted access sports facilities or outdoors without the presence of the public.	What restrictions have been applied to the Autogrill facilities and other bars and cafes in the motorway service areas and at railway stations, airports, lake stations and hospitals?	The Order of 20 March ordered the closure of bars and cafes at railway and lake stations and at road service areas and petrol stations.  The bars and cafes in motorway service areas remain open but can only sell take-away food and beverages to be consumed off-premises.  Bars and cafes in hospitals and airports also remain open, ensuring a distance of at least one metre between people.	What should I do if I need to move from one Region to another in Italy?	You will need to:	self-report to the Prevention Department of your Local Health Authority )and to your GP and/or paediatrician.	self-isolate at home for 14 days without moving or travelling further, ensuring you are contactable by health surveillance officers;	if you develop symptoms, notify the local public health professional, GP or paediatrician or, in case of emergency, call 112.	Who should I contact?	If you have flu symptoms or think you might be at risk of infection, stay at home, do not go to the emergency room or the doctor's surgery but call your family doctor, paediatrician or the 'guardia medica.'  Alternatively, call the regional information hotline.	Where can I find more information about the novel Coronavirus?	The Regions have activated local helps-line to handle the many requests for information and advice.	If you have flu symptoms and you think you might have been in close contact with someone with Covid-19, do not to go to the emergency room.  Call your family doctor or paediatrician.  Call emergency numbers 112 or 118 only if really necessary.	You can find specific information for schools, universities and art and music colleges in the dedicated page of the Ministry of University and Research and the Ministry of Education.	Updates on the evolution of the outbreak are released daily at 18.00 by the Civil Protection and published in the dedicated pages Situation in Italy and Situation in the world of the Ministry's website.	If you are planning to travel abroad, you will find useful information on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' travel advice website Viaggiare sicuri.	More information is available on the Epicentro website of the National Institute of Health.	What are the recommendations for travellers?	The Decree of the Prime Minister of 9 March 2020 has banned all travel for tourism purposes abroad or in Italy.  Travel is only allowed for reasons of work, health or extenuating circumstances.  Travel to return home is allowed.	Travel from Italy to foreign countries, for tourism purposes only, should be avoided: if you have booked a trip and you are scheduled to leave during the period of the current travel restrictions, remember that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has no say in the interpretation given by individual tour operators to the information on its website and has no competence on contractual relationships and on the rules governing travel contracts between travellers and tour-operators/agencies, or on the terms and conditions of travel insurance policies.	What to do if you are abroad: the current provisions allow you to return to your place of residence, home or domicile.  Therefore, you can return to Italy.  However, please note that, after the issue of the Prime Minister's Decree of 9 March 2020, many airlines and/or countries have suspended flights to/from Italian airports.  You must contact your airline for information on your return flight and where necessary, to obtain alternative travel arrangements allowing you to return to Italy.	For more information please visit.	Are foreign nationals required to observe the same travel limitations as Italian citizens?	Yes, the restrictions to travel and movement apply to all persons in or entering/exiting Italy, regardless of their nationality.	What are the WHO's recommendations for countries?	The WHO encourages all countries to strengthen preventive measures, active surveillance, early detection of cases, their isolation following appropriate management and containment procedures, and accurate contact tracing to prevent further spread.	Countries are asked to continue to improve their preparedness for health emergencies in line with International Health Regulations )and to share information on cases and on the measures they implement.	Where are COVID-19 cases occurring?	On 31 December 2019, the Municipal Health Commission of Wuhan )reported to the WHO a cluster of pneumonia cases of unknown aetiology in Wuhan City, Hubei province.	On 9 January 2020, the Chinese Centre for Disease Prevention and Control )reported that a novel coronavirus )was detected as the causative agent and the genome sequence was made publicly available.	On 30 January 2020, the World Health Organization declared that this outbreak constitutes a Public Health Emergency of International Concern.	On 11 March 2020 the WHO stated that COVID-19 can be characterised as a pandemic.	The epidemiological situation is constantly evolving.  WHO publishes daily epidemiological updates.	)See also useful links and information on the pages Codiv-19 Situation in Italy and Covid-19 Situation in the world.	What nationwide monitoring system has been introduced against this virus?	In Italy, specific nationwide surveillance has been activated for this virus.	The situation is constantly monitored by the Ministry, which is in continuous contact with the WHO, the ECDC and the European Commission and promptly publishes any new updates on the website.	In light of the WHO's declaration of a 'Public Health Emergency of International Concern' on 31 January 2020 the Italian Council of Ministers declared a state of emergency due to the health risk associated with the coronavirus infection.	What specific health measure for travellers were taken in the early stages of the epidemic in our country?	Following the notification of the outbreak by China, Italy immediately recommended that travellers should avoid all non-essential flights to Wuhan and, subsequently, as the outbreak spread, to the whole of China.	China has cancelled all flights from Wuhan.	By order of 30 January 2020, the Minister of Health stopped air traffic with the People's Republic of China, including the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macao.  This measure also applies to Taiwan.	If there is a suspected case of novel Coronavirus ),an emergency procedure is immediately adopted on board flights from any origin: the patient will be taken to a designated hospital and placed in isolation, and close contacts will be traced.	What is a coronavirus?	Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses known to cause diseases ranging from the common cold to more serious diseases such as the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome )and the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.	)They are positive-stranded RNA viruses with a crown-like appearance under the electron microscope.  The subfamily Orthocoronavirinae of the family Coronaviridae is further classified into four coronavirus )genera: Alpha, Beta, Delta-and Gammacoronavirus.	)Coronaviruses were identified in the mid-1960s and are known to infect humans and a variety of animals.  )Epithelial cells in the respiratory and gastrointestinal tract are the primary target cells.	To date, seven coronaviruses have been shown to infect humans:	Common human coronaviruses: HCoV-OC43 and HCoV-HKU1 )and HCoV-229E and HCoV-NL63 );they can cause common colds but also severe lower respiratory tract infections.	What is a novel coronavirus?	A novel coronavirus )is a new strain of coronavirus never previously identified in humans.  In particular, the virus named SARS-CoV-2 ),was never identified before it was reported in Wuhan, China, in December 2019.	What is SARS-Cov-2?	The virus that is causing the current coronavirus outbreak has been named 'severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2.'  )This designation was communicated by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses ),virus taxa.  )The name was given by a group of experts specially appointed to study the novel coronavirus.  According to this pool of scientists, the novel coronavirus is a sister to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronaviruses );this is why it has been named SARS-CoV-2.	What is COVID-19?	The disease caused by the novel Coronavirus has been named 'COVID-19.'  )This was announced on 11 February 2020 by the Director-General of the WHO, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.	Is the new virus the same as SARS?	No.  The novel Coronavirus )belongs to the same family of viruses as the Acute Severe Respiratory Syndrome )virus, but it is not the same virus.	The novel Coronavirus, which is responsible for the respiratory disease now named COVID-19, is closely related to the SARS-CoV and is genetically classified in the genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus.	Why did the novel coronavirus appear?	The appearance of new viruses that originally only infected animals but then make the jump from animal to humans is a well-known phenomenon '),and this is what seems to have happened with the new coronavirus.  Currently, the scientific community is trying to identify the source of the infection.	What are the symptoms of a person infected with a coronavirus?	The most common symptoms are fever, tiredness and dry cough.  Some people may experience soreness and muscle pain, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhoea.  These symptoms are generally mild and start gradually.  In more serious cases, the infection can cause pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, kidney failure and even death.	How dangerous is the new virus?	Some people get infected but do not develop any symptoms.  Symptoms are usually mild, especially in children and young adults, and have a gradual onset.	About 1 in 5 people with COVID-19 become seriously ill and develop breathing difficulties, requiring hospitalization.	How long is the incubation period?	The incubation period is the time between infection and the onset of clinical symptoms of disease.  It is currently estimated to range between 2 and 11 days, up to a maximum of 14 days.	Who are the people most at risk of developing a severe form of the disease?	People at higher risk for severe COVID-19 are senior citizens, people with underlying conditions such as hypertension, heart disease or diabetes and individuals with a weakened immune system.	)5. What are the recommendations for people at higher risk?	The Prime Minister's Decree of 8 March 2020 provides that senior citizens, people with chronic or multiple health problems or with congenital or acquired immune deficiency should avoid leaving their homes unless strictly necessary and should keep away from crowded places where it is not possible to maintain a safe distance of at least one metre between people.	If you must leave your home for reasons of necessity, take with you the self-declaration form issued by the Ministry of the Interior.	Can Coronaviruses and the novel Coronavirus be transmitted from person to person?	Yes, some Coronaviruses can be transmitted from person to person, usually after close contact with an infected patient, for example, between family members or in a healthcare centre.	The novel Coronavirus responsible for respiratory disease COVID-19 can also be transmitted from person to person through close contact with a probable or confirmed case.	How is the novel Coronavirus transmitted from person to person?	The new coronavirus is a respiratory virus which spreads primarily through close contact with an infected person.  The primary route is through respiratory droplets from the infected persons, for example through: touching an object or surface contaminated with the virus, then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands 	In rare cases, faecal contamination.	Normally, respiratory diseases cannot be passed on through food.  However, safe food hygiene practices should be followed, and contact should be avoided between raw and cooked food.	Studies are under way to better understand how the virus is transmitted.	Can the novel coronavirus infection be caught from a person who presents no symptoms?	)According to the WHO, based on the currently available data, the main route of transmission of the virus is through close contact with people who have symptoms.  However, it is believed that in rare cases the virus may also be transmitted by people in the early stages of the disease, who have no or very mild symptoms.	Who is at greater risk of infection?	People who live or have travelled in areas at risk of novel coronavirus infection or people who have been in close contact with a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19.	The areas at risk of novel coronavirus infection are those where local transmission of SARS-CoV-2 is present, as identified by the World Health Organization.  The risk level in those areas is higher than in areas where only imported cases are present.	Are health workers at risk from a novel coronavirus?	Yes, they can be, because they come into contact with patients more often than the general population.  The World Health Organisation )recommends that health workers follow appropriate prevention and control measures for infections in general and respiratory infections in particular.	What is the definition of close contact?	The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control defines close contact as follows:	A person living in the same household as a COVID-19 case;	A person having had direct physical contact with a COVID-19 case;	A person having unprotected direct contact with infectious secretions of a COVID-19 case;	A person having had face-to-face contact with a COVID-19 case within 2 metres and >15 minutes;	A person who was in a closed environment )with a COVID-19 case for 15 minutes or more and at a distance of less than 2 metres;	A healthcare worker )or other person providing direct care for a COVID-19 case, or laboratory workers handling specimens from a COVID-19 case without recommended personal protective equipment or with a possible breach of PPE;	A contact in an aircraft sitting within two seats )of the COVID-19 case, travel companions or persons providing care, and crew members serving in the section of the aircraft where the index case was seated.	The epidemiological link to a probable or confirmed case may have occurred within a 14 day period before the onset of illness in the suspected case under consideration.	How to manage a close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case?	Under the Ministry's orders, the local health authorities must place any close contacts of a probable or confirmed case under quarantine with active surveillance for 14 days.	When can a confirmed case of COVID-19 be declared recovered?	A COVID-19 patient can be considered cured after the resolution of symptoms )and after two negative swab tests for SARS-CoV-2 performed 24 hours apart.	How does the novel Coronavirus spread?	The new coronavirus is a respiratory virus which spreads primarily through contact with the respiratory droplets of infected persons, generated when, for example, they cough or sneeze or blow their nose.  It is therefore important that infected people practice respiratory hygiene measure.  For example, sneeze or cough into a flexed elbow, or use a tissue and discard it immediately into a closed bin.  It is also very important for people to wash their hands frequently with soap and water or a alcohol-based hand rub.	What are the rules for disinfecting/washing hands?	Hand washing and disinfection are a key measure for preventing infection.  You should wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water, for at least 60 seconds.  If you do not have soap and water, you can use an alcohol-based hand rub instead.	How long does the novel Coronavirus survive on surfaces?	Preliminary information suggests the virus may survive a few hours.  However, this aspect is still under study.  Simple disinfectants can kill the virus, making it no longer able to infect people, for example, disinfectants containing 75% alcohol )or 1% chlorine.	Always remember to disinfect frequently used items )with a cloth dampened with alcohol or bleach-based products.	Is it safe to receive packages from countries where COVID-19 has been reported?	Yes.  The WHO has stated that the likelihood of an infected person contaminating commercial goods is low and the risk of catching the virus from a package that has been exposed to different conditions and temperature is also low.	Is it necessary to spray the streets with disinfectants?	)There is no evidence that walking surfaces are involved in transmission of the virus.  Moreover, spraying hypochlorite could increase the amount of harmful substances in the environment.  Street cleaning with conventional soaps/detergents is still advised.	What are the rules for disinfecting/washing hands?&#160;	Hand washing and disinfection are a key measure for preventing infection.  You should wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water, for at least 60 seconds.  If you do not have soap and water, you can use an alcohol-based hand rub instead 	Can humans become infected with the novel coronavirus from animals?	Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans in China in 2002 and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans in Saudi Arabia in 2012.  Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans.  As surveillance improves around the world, more coronaviruses are likely to be identified.	The animal source of the novel Coronavirus has not yet been identified.  It is likely that the first reported human infections in China were originated by an animal source.	Can I catch the infection from my pet?	No, at present there is no scientific evidence that pets such as cats and dogs have been infected or have spread the infection.	However, you should wash your hands frequently with soap and water or use an alcohol-based hand rub after contact with animals.	Are any animals or animal products imported from China?	Due to the presence of some contagious animal diseases in China, only a few live animals and unprocessed animal products from China are authorised for import into the European Union.	There is no evidence that any of the animals or animal products authorised for entry into the European Union pose a risk to the health of EU citizens as a result of the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in China.	Is it possible to import food products from China?	As with the imports of animals and animal products, due to the animal health situation in China, only a few products of animal origin are authorised for import into the EU from China, on the condition that they meet strict health requirements and have been subjected to controls.	For the same reasons, travellers entering the EU customs territory are not allowed to carry any meat, meat products, milk or dairy products in their luggage.	Is there a vaccine against the novel coronavirus?	No, since this is a new disease, there is currently no vaccine available and it could take up to 12-18 months to develop one.	What can I do to protect myself?	Get updates on the spread of the pandemic from the websites of WHO and the Ministry of Health and take the following personal protection measures:	Keep yourself up to date with the spread of the outbreak, by checking the WHO website, and take the following personal protection measures:	avoid shared use of bottles and glasses; do not touch your eyes, nose and mouth with your hands.	wear a mask only if you think you may be ill or you are looking after someone who is ill.	If you have a fever, cough or difficulty breathing and you think you may have been in close contact with someone who is sick with Covid-19:	stay at home, do not go to the emergency room or to a doctor's surgery but call your family doctor, paediatrician or the 'guardia medica.'  )Alternatively, call the regional telephone information hotline.  Call emergency numbers 112 or 118 only if really necessary.	Can the virus be transmitted via food?	Normally, respiratory diseases cannot be passed on through food.  However, safe food hygiene practices should be followed, and contact between raw and cooked food should be avoided.	It is safe to drink tap water, thanks to treatment processes that remove viruses, environmental conditions that compromise virus vitality )and the final disinfection step.	Should I wear a mask to protect myself?	The World Health Organization recommends wearing a mask only if you have suspected novel coronavirus infection and respiratory symptoms such as coughing or sneezing, or if you are caring for someone with suspected novel coronavirus infection.	Use of the face mask can help to limit the spread of the virus, but should be combined with other respiratory and hand hygiene measures.	In fact, it is possible that the use of face masks may even increase the risk of infection due to a false sense of security and increased contact between hands, mouth and eyes.	Avoid wearing several masks on top of each other.  The rational use of medical masks is important to avoid unnecessary wastage of precious resources.	It is not recommended to use home-made or fabric face masks );they are not protection equipment and their protective capacity is unknown.	How should I put on and take off the mask?	Follow these steps:	before putting on the mask, wash your hands with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand rub 	cover your mouth and nose with the mask ensuring that it is intact and it fits snugly to your face 	when the mask becomes damp, replace it with a new one and do not reuse it, since disposable masks are to be used once only 	Remove the mask by handling the elastic band only, without touching the front of the mask; discard immediately in a closed bin and wash your hands 	Is there a treatment for the novel coronavirus?	There is no specific treatment for disease caused by the novel coronavirus.  Treatment must be based on the patient's symptoms.  Supportive care can be highly effective.  Some specific treatments are under investigation.	Can antibiotics be useful to prevent infection with novel coronavirus?	No, antibiotics do not work against viruses, they only work on bacterial infections.	Am I protected from COVID-19 if I got a flu shot this year?	Influenza and the virus that causes COVID-19 are two different viruses and the seasonal flu vaccine does not protect from COVID-19.  However, the flu vaccine is strongly recommended because it helps to avoid confusion with COVID-19 if you develop symptoms, enabling earlier isolation of possible coronavirus cases.	Can high-blood pressure medications with ACE inhibitors or sartans or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs )worsen COVID-19?	There is no scientific evidence of any correlation between the use of ibuprofen or antihypertensive drugs and worsening of the COVID-19 disease.  Therefore, on the basis of current knowledge, there is no recommendation to change your current treatment.	Are pregnant women more susceptible to infection or at increased risk of developing a severe form of COVID-19?	There are no scientific reports on the susceptibility of pregnant women to the virus.  Pregnancy involves changes in the immune system which may increase the risk of viral respiratory infections, including SARS-CoV-2.  Pregnant women might also be at higher risk of developing a severe form of viral respiratory infections.	The advice for pregnant women is to take normal preventive actions to reduce the risk of infection, such as washing hands often and avoiding contact with people who are sick.	What are the effects of COVID-19 during pregnancy?	There are no scientific reports about the effects of COVID-19 during pregnancy.  In cases of infection during pregnancy with other related coronaviruses [SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV], cases of miscarriage have been observed, while high fevers during the first trimester of pregnancy may increase the risk of birth defects.	Can pregnant women with COVID-19 pass the virus to their fetus or new-born?	From the limited data in the literature, no cases of transmission of infection by other coronaviruses )from mother to child have been reported.  Recent data on children born to mothers with COVID-19 indicate that none of the infants tested positive.  Additionally, SARS-CoV-2 was not detected in the amniotic fluid.	Do children have an increased risk of infection?	Currently, there is no evidence that children are more susceptible to new coronavirus infection.  According to a recent study carried out in China, the majority of the confirmed cases of COVID-19 occurred in adults.	However, as with other respiratory diseases, some populations of children may be at greater risk of serious infection, such as children with underlying medical conditions.	Therefore, children too should follow the recommended prevention measures.  In particular they should wash their hands frequently with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand rub and avoid contact with sick people.