	The global situation is evolving and travel advice will be updated as new information becomes available.	From 14th March 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is advising against non-essential travel to all countries.  The advice applies until 14th April.  Travellers should follow news and travel information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the advice may be updated rapidly.	Quarantine decision published by the Government on 15th March 2020:	The quarantine and isolation of people arriving in Norway from abroad are regulated in a separate regulation issued by the Cabinet of Ministers on March 13th, 2020.  This still applies, but it has been amended today to introduce a quarantine obligation for all who arrive in Norway.	The changes will take effect from Tuesday, March 17th, 2020.	This means that travellers from Sweden and Finland will also be quarantined.	According to the regulation, people who, as part of their working conditions need to travel between residence and place of work, and need to cross the borders between Norway, Sweden and Finland, are exempt from quarantine when travelling to and from work."	Check what is covered by your travel insurance, including what applies if you become ill on your journey.	Each country may introduce measures and restrictions to prevent further transmission, e.g transport restrictions, quarantine or other measures that can have consequences for travellers.  Several countries and airports have introduced control measures to prevent infection, and travellers should be prepared to answer questions about their health and have their temperature checked for fever.	Consider the following before travel:	)Risk of travel restrictions, curfews, quarantine or other measures in the country you are travelling to 	Risk of home isolation in Norway if you become ill on your return.	Risk of not being able to work during the first 14 days after travel.	)Travellers belonging to risk groups should be vaccinated against seasonal influenza within 14 days of departure, as there are outbreaks of seasonal influenza in several countries.	)As with all infections, thorough hand washing with soap and water is an important preventative measure.  Alcohol-based hand disinfection may be an option if hand-washing facilities are unavailable.	Avoid contact with sick people, especially those with symptoms of respiratory infection.	Avoid coughing on others, wash your hands frequently and thoroughly and avoid travelling if you are ill.	Students and other people who are staying in areas with widespread transmission over a longer period should follow the advice from the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, local health authorities and educational institutions/employers.	Follow the general travel advice for vaccines for other infectious diseases and other preventative measures.