	Is it possible to be infected with the new coronavirus in Switzerland?	Yes, and the risk of becoming infected with coronavirus in Switzerland is increasing.	How is the new coronavirus transmitted?	By close and prolonged contact: If you're closer than two metres to a person who has con-tracted the illness.	By droplet infection: If one person sneezes or coughs, the virus can be transported directly to the mucous membranes in the nose, mouth or eyes of other people.	Via your hands: Infectious droplets can get onto your hands from coughing and sneezing.  Or you come into contact with a surface contaminated with the virus They can then get into your system if you touch your mouth, nose or eyes.	Why is it important to follow rules on hygiene and how to behave around others?	We are dealing with a new virus against which humans have not yet developed immunity.  That is why so many people are being infected and developing the disease, and why the spread of the new coronavirus must be delayed as far as possible.	In particular those at high risk of becoming seriously ill must be protected.  These include people over the age of 65, and those with underlying health conditions )and those with diseases or receiving treatments that weaken the immune system.	If we follow all of the rules "),we can reduce the risk of exposing these people to the infection.  That way we can also ensure that our health system is able to continue to provide good treatment to those who are seriously ill.  This is important because intensive care units only have a limited number of beds and ventilators.	How long is the period between infection and the appearance of symptoms?  And when do people become contagious?	The new coronavirus has an incubation period --i.e the time between infection and the appearance of the first symptoms --of around five days.  However, this period can last up to 14 days.	Anyone contracting the new coronavirus is infectious for a long time.  Namely:	A day before symptoms appear, so before you even notice that you've contracted the disease.	While you are experiencing symptoms of the illness.  That is when you are most infectious.	Until at least 48 hours after you have recovered.	Make sure you follow the rules on hygiene and social distancing all the time.	What do you have to do if you have been in contact with someone infected with the new coronavirus?	If you have been in close contact with someone who has been confirmed as having the coronavirus ),but who is not living in the same household as you, and with whom you have not had intimate relations: Monitor your condition.	If you don't have any symptoms ):Monitor your condition to see if you develop any symptoms.	If you have mild symptoms ):Isolate yourself at home until you are free of symptoms.  Wait a further 48 hours before going out in public.	')If your symptoms get worse )or if you have an underlying medical condition and are therefore at especially high risk: Call a doctor or healthcare institution.  They will then decide if you need a medical examination, or if it is enough just to stay at home in isolation.	')If you live in the same household as someone who is infected, or with whom you have had intimate relations: Stay at home in quarantine for ten days.  ')Monitor your condition to see if you develop any symptoms.  )Follow the advice above.	Can the new coronavirus be transmitted via foodstuffs?	So far there are no known cases of the new coronavirus being transmitted through food or drinking water.	If you want to be quite sure, wash and heat foods properly.  You will find more information at.	More detailed information on food and nutrition can be found on the website of the Federal Food Safety and Veterinary Office.	)The general rules on hygiene and social distancing are set out in our campaign 'Protect yourself and others.'	Can animals here in Switzerland transmit the new coronavirus?	There are no indications to date that animals here in Switzerland )pose a risk of infection for humans, or that they spread the virus.	Further information on coronavirus in connection with animals can be found on the website of the Federal Food Safety and Veterinary Office FSVO.	)What should pet owners do if they are put in isolation at home?	Pet owners in this situation must as far as possible avoid contact with their pets.  )They should have a healthy person look after their animals.	If dogs have to go outside, they should be kept on a lead and stay outdoors only briefly.  If possible the person accompanying them should avoid contact with other people and animals.	Dogs and cats from a household in quarantine do not have to be specially bathed or disinfected.	The following rule applies to everyone: wash your hands after contact with an animal.	More detailed information on handling animals during this extraordinary situation due to the coronavirus can be found on the Federal Food Safety and Veterinary Office FSVO.	Can the coronavirus be transmitted via door handles, mobile phones or other everyday objects?	Yes.  If a person infected with coronavirus sneezes or coughs into the air, instead of into a tissue or the crook of their arm, droplets containing the virus land on surfaces.  If you then come into contact with these surfaces and touch your eyes, nose or mouth with your hand, the virus can get into your body and you can become infected.	Important:	Wash your hands regularly and thoroughly with soap and water.	Avoid touching your face.	Cough or sneeze into a paper tissue or the crook of your arm.	Wash your hands every time you cough or sneeze..	What surfaces can the coronavirus attach itself to?  And how long does it remain infectious?	The virus can cling to surfaces and objects.	At the moment, there are no clear indications as to how long the virus can remain infectious on different surfaces.	Important: Regularly clean objects or surfaces that you touch frequently.  Use a regular cleaning product.	Can I still give blood?	Even in the current situation with the coronavirus, people who are seriously ill or injured need blood transfusions.	If you are healthy, you can still give blood as usual.  Blood donation centres guarantee that they will comply with the rules on hygiene and social distancing while you are giving blood.	Please be sure to arrange an appointment before going to a blood donation centre.  You will find a list of opening hours for blood donation centres and mobile blood donation campaigns at.	Can the coronavirus be passed on through the blood?	There are no indications that the coronavirus can be passed on through the blood.  The transmission of the virus via donated blood is therefore highly unlikely.	Am I at especially high risk of becoming seriously ill with COVID-19 if I'm pregnant?	There is no evidence at present that healthy pregnant women are at especially high risk of becoming seriously ill.  Nevertheless, if you are pregnant you should take every precaution to protect yourself from becoming infected as an acute illness --particularly a cough and high temperature --can have an impact on the pregnancy.	We therefore recommend that you strictly follow the rules on hygiene and social distancing.	Your employer is responsible for implementing protective measures in the workplace.	I'm pregnant and have questions about the coronavirus.  Who should I contact?	If you have specific questions about your pregnancy, please contact your gynaecologist or midwife.  They can assess your situation and discuss any measures you need to take.	If you experience any symptoms that could indicate a coronavirus infection, call your gynaecologist to discuss further steps.	I've contracted the coronavirus and am expecting a child.  Is my baby at risk?	There is currently no evidence that babies have become infected with the new coronavirus during pregnancy when the mother had contracted COVID-19 before the birth.  So far, no viruses have been detected in a mother's amniotic fluid or breast milk.	However, the new-born baby can become infected after birth via droplets.  )However, there is currently no evidence that new-born babies are at increased risk of severe illness.	You can still breastfeed your baby, but it is important that you follow the special hygiene rules.  These can protect your new-born child from infection.	I'm pregnant and have been in contact with someone infected with the coronavirus.  What should I do?	First and foremost the same rules apply as for everyone else: you have to place yourself in quarantine.	If you experience symptoms of illness ),contact your gynaecologist immediately to discuss the necessary steps.	I'm pregnant and am in a high-risk group as I have an underlying medical condition.  What should I do?	If you are expecting and have an underlying medical condition, contracting the new coronavirus could be harmful to you.  You would therefore be categorised as being at especially high risk.	We would strongly urge you to follow our recommendations for people at especially high risk.	If you experience symptoms of illness, contact your gynaecologist immediately to discuss the necessary steps.	I'm pregnant and infected with the new coronavirus and the baby is due.  What should I do?	You should self-isolate at home and notify your gynaecologist straight away, as well as the hospital where you are due to give birth.  If you have to go to the hospital or medical practice before the due date, or as an emergency case, call beforehand and tell them that you have tested positive for coronavirus.  You will then be told what to do next.  Travel to the appointment by car if at all possible.	I'm pregnant and still going to work.  Does that pose a threat to me and my unborn child?	There is no evidence at present that pregnant women are at higher risk of contracting the new coronavirus.  Pregnant women can still go to work as long as their employer respects the applicable rules on hygiene and social distancing.  If these measures are not observed in the workplace, pregnant women are afforded special protection under the Maternity Health and Safety Ordinance.	What are the symptoms of coronavirus disease?	The symptoms are very variable, non-specific and can vary in severity.  The following symptoms can occur:	Complications such as pneumonia are also possible.	Nor everyone with symptoms will be tested for the new coronavirus.  However, if you experience one or more of the above symptoms, there is a high likelihood that you have contracted the new coronavirus.	You have to stay at home for 10 days once one of these symptoms occurs.  Follow the instructions on self-isolation.  Avoid all contact with other people during this time.  Stay at home for a further 48 hours after you have recovered.	Most people will only experience a mild illness.  However, in particular those over the age of 65, or those with an underlying medical condition could become seriously ill.  Further information can be found under People at especially high risk and COVID-19, symptoms and treatment, origins of the new coronavirus.	I have a high temperature and a cough.  What should I do?	As well as a cough and/or a high temperature, other indications of a coronavirus infection may include a sore throat, shortness of breath, feverishness or muscle ache.	You can be infected with coronavirus without experiencing strong symptoms.  Sometimes only one of the symptoms may occur.	If you experience one of these symptoms, you must self-isolate at home so as not to infect other people.  Avoid contact with other people as much as possible.  If you only experience mild symptoms, you can look after yourself at home.  Please follow the instructions provided under self-isolation and self-quarantine.	If you are at high risk of becoming seriously ill or your symptoms get worse, call your doctor.  They will then decide whether you need a medical examination or whether it is sufficient for you to stay at home and nurse yourself.	What should I do if I've been in contact with a person displaying coronavirus symptoms?	Do you live in the same household as this person?	Or have you had physical contact )with someone who then experienced coronavirus symptoms 24 hours later?	If the answer to either of those questions is 'yes', there is a high likelihood that that you have contracted the virus.  It is therefore important that you don't infect anyone else.  Quarantine yourself at home.	You can find information on what that involves under Self-isolation and Self-quarantine.  Carefully follow the instructions.	How is an infection with the new coronavirus detected?	Every suspected case of infection with the new coronavirus must be investigated by a doctor.  The doctor will ask questions about travel, contact with other people and symptoms such as fever, coughing or respiratory problems.	Laboratory testing is the only way of obtaining conclusive confirmation.  A lab test can be done, for example, with a nose and throat swab.  )If the lab confirms infection, the person who has contracted the disease will be isolated in accordance with the cantonal medical officer's instructions.	What treatment is there for the new coronavirus disease?	At the moment there is no specific treatment for the disease caused by the coronavirus.  Treatment is limited to easing the symptoms.  To protect other people, those infected are placed in isolation.  In serious cases, patients usually require intensive care, which may involve artificial ventilation.	Can COVID-19 )be treated with antibiotics?	No.  Antibiotics only work for bacteria, not viruses.  For this reason it is not possible to cure the new coronavirus disease with antibiotics.	Is there a connection between Ibuprofen and COVID-19?	There is no scientific data to indicate that such a connection exists at the present time.  There is no demonstrable proof that Ibuprofen has an effect on the progression of COVID-19.	Instead it is important to know whether patients ill with COVID-19 have any pre-existing conditions or are currently suffering from any other diseases.  As is always the case, the treatment will then be carefully adapted to the patient's situation.	We recommend that you always keep a list of any medication that you have taken.  You should list any medication prescribed by a doctor, as well as any medication you have taken yourself.	What is 'self-isolation', and what does it involve for me?	If someone experiences minor symptoms of illness ),sore throat, shortness of breath and/or high temperature, feverishness, muscle ache), they will not be tested for the novel coronavirus.  )This person then remains voluntarily in so-called self-isolation at home, minimising their contact with other people, including those living in the same household.  This way they can avoid infecting others.	You can end the period of self-isolation yourself once you have been free of symptoms for 48 hours.	People with symptoms of illness for whom a doctor has decided a test is necessary: If the test is positive, the person remains isolated until 48 hours after they have recovered, and at least ten days from the moment their symptoms of illness appeared.  )Because it is not clear when the risk of passing on the infection ends, even after this they should continue to follow the rules of hygiene and how to behave.	What is quarantine, and what do I have to bear in mind?	In voluntary quarantine, the people who live with or have intimate contact with a person with the disease stay at home voluntarily and minimise their contact with other people.	If members of a family living together in the same household are in voluntary quarantine, the healthy members can continue to have contact with each other.  The person with the disease, however, should remain in self-isolation and avoid contact with the others.	The healthy family members can come out of quarantine if they have not developed symptoms after ten days.  Ten days is the period within which most people display the first symptoms.	If symptoms of illness arise during quarantine, the person affected must also go into self-isolation.  They only have to go to the doctor if their state of health requires or if they are a person at especially high risk.	How can I protect myself from becoming infected with the new coronavirus?	You can find information on how to protect yourself under 'Protect yourself and others.	Should I wear a hygienic mask?	No, healthy people should not wear hygiene masks )in public.  If you are in good health, they do not protect you effectively from infection with respiratory viruses.  )Wearing a mask can therefore give you a false sense of security.	Excluded from this recommendation:	If you have a respiratory condition: A face mask can prevent someone who is ill from infecting others.  This means you should wear one if you cannot keep at least two metres away from other people.	)If you have to wear a mask at work, e.g healthcare personnel or care workers looking after people in poor health.	Bear in mind: If you see someone wearing a face mask, it doesn't mean that the person is infected with the coronavirus.  There maybe various reasons for wearing a mask.  Whatever the reason, be friendly and supportive.	How can the new coronavirus be rendered harmless?	If clothes or body parts have been contaminated with the new coronavirus ),you should wash them with soap and water.  You can clean objects and surfaces with commercially available cleaning agents.	How can the coronavirus be removed from surfaces or laundry?	To be on the safe side, clean household appliances and surfaces that could be contaminated with the virus --and that you use or touch often --regularly and thoroughly.  You can use a regular cleaning product.	Wash crockery, glasses, cups and kitchen utensils in the dishwasher or by hand with washing-up liquid after use.	Wash your clothing, bed linen and bath towels regularly in the washing machine.	Does a private meal with friends count as a prohibited event?	Private meals do not fall under the ban.  But in this critical situation, we must all keep our social interactions to an absolute minimum.  We are therefore appealing to your sense of responsibility: avoid all social interaction that is not absolutely necessary.	Follow the rules on hygiene and keep a distance of at least 2 metres from others at all times.	Can I still meet up with my friends?	As a general rule, stay at home.  Particularly if you are ill or over the age of 65, you should only leave the home in exceptional circumstances.	Gatherings of more than five people in public are prohibited.  This rule also applies to large families or households.  The police can issue you with a fine if you do not follow these rules.	If you do meet up with up to four other friends, you must also keep a distance of at least two metres.  Naturally, normal contact such as a mother holding hands with her child or a husband supporting his sight-impaired wife while out walking, is still allowed.	Keep your social interactions to an absolute minimum.  That means:	Do not meet in groups of more than five people and keep at least two metres apart and follow the rules on hygiene and social distancing.	Are children still allowed to meet up with friends to play?	We understand that looking after children poses a challenge in the current situation.  However, it is important that no large groups of children gather in parks or other public spaces.  Gatherings of small groups of no more than five children are permitted.  But it is important that parents or other adults do not gather too.  Older people or those at especially high risk are not allowed to have contact with children.	Please follow the rules on hygiene and keep a distance of two metres at all times.	Can I still go to a concert, the theatre, a party or an open day?	No, that's not possible right now.  The following events, for example, are not permitted:	We are organising a demonstration --it that still ok?	No, organising or participating in demonstrations is not allowed.	Can I go to a place of worship?	Religious services are not permitted.  However, you may visit a place of worship if you are alone.	If you still come into contact with other people, keep at least two metres apart, and follow the rules on hygiene and social distancing.	Can I organise an Annual General Meeting or attend one?	No, neither is possible.  AGMs at which delegates attend in person are prohibited; if one is to go ahead, special authorisation must be obtained from the relevant cantonal authority.  There is no problem however if delegates exercise their rights in writing or electronically, or through an independent shareholder proxy designated by the organiser.	Can I still take my driving lessons?	No, driving lessons are not allowed.	Are taxi firms and other private transport services also covered by the ban?	No, they can continue to operate.  But the FOPH's rules must be strictly adhered to including maintaining an appropriate distance between people.	Establishments providing personal services involving physical contact have to close.  Which businesses are affected and which aren't?	Service providers affected include hairdressers, massage and tattoo parlours, cosmetic studios and driving schools.	Establishments offering only advisory services are not included.  In going about their business, all these establishments must follow the FOPH's recommendations.  Rules on hygiene must be adhered to and people must keep sufficient distance from one another.	What is the situation regarding stores that also stock products other than everyday items?  Do sections containing non-essential items have to be blocked off?	Stores with assorted product ranges may only sell items for everyday use.  Sections containing other products must be closed or blocked off wherever possible.  Large retailers with flower shops in their stores must block these off and close them.  Department stores with food sections on the ground floor or in the basement, for example, may stay open, but all other floors must remain closed.	Where stores offer a large blend of products in the same section, the store must undertake practicable measures to ensure that non-essential items are blocked off, e.g large areas with perfumes and the like in drug stores, toy or clothes sections in supermarkets.  These types of product may no longer be sold.  The store must block off such sections or cover the shelves.	Can bakeries and butchers also stay open?	Yes, these are considered food stores and therefore do not have to close.  However, bakeries may only sell goods over the counter.  If they have a cafe section, that must remain closed.	Are commercial enterprises covered by the ban?	Commercial enterprises not accessible to the public, do not have to close and can continue to operate.	Commercial enterprises accessible to the public, must close those parts accessible to the public, e.g electrical stores or garden centres.	What are the rules for construction sites?	Construction sites are not affected by the new rules and do not have to close.  However, the rules on hygiene and social distancing must be respected.  If this is not possible in the normal course of operation, the following measures must be taken:	Gatherings of more than five people in canteen/rest area must be prevented.	These measures are likely to complicate the construction process.  However, construction site operators must take this into account given the need to reduce the risk of transmitting the virus.  If workers are unable to adhere to the rules on hygiene and social distancing despite these measures, the relevant cantonal authorities may decide to shut down the site.	In addition to healthcare institutions, such as hospitals, clinics and medical practices, practices and facilities operated by health professionals under federal and cantonal law are to remain open.  )Specifically, what types of practice and facility are covered by this exemption?	Are internal meetings allowed?  If so, under what conditions?	Internal meetings are still allowed.  But those attending the meeting must follow the rules on hygiene and social distancing.  As a guideline roughly 4m2 per person.	What rules apply to the hospitality and catering industry?	Restaurants serving guests on the premises must close.  The following catering outlets may continue to operate:	Snack bars such as:	Hotels are exempted from the new rules and do not have to close.  What about motels, youth hostels and B&Bs?  Are properties offered on Airbnb also exempted?	Motels, youth hostels and B&Bs are also covered by the exemption for hotels.	Properties offered on Airbnb are short-term rentals of private properties, or parts thereof.  As such, they are not covered by any restrictions and may continue to be rented out.	Affected areas: why is reference no longer being made to 'affected areas?	There is now a risk of becoming infected with new coronavirus in almost all parts of the world.  As of 9 March we will therefore no longer be referring to 'affected areas.'	What is the new coronavirus?  What is SARS-CoV-2, and what is COVID-19?	The new coronavirus was discovered in China at the end of 2019 on the basis of an extraordinary incidence of pneumonia in the central Chinese city of Wuhan.  The virus, which was named SARS-CoV-2, belongs to the same family as the pathogens responsible for Middle East respiratory syndrome" MERS and severe acute respiratory syndrome SARS.	On 11 February 2020 the WHO gave the disease caused by the new coronavirus an official name: COVID-19, short for coronavirus disease 2019.	The information currently available suggests that it was animals that transmitted the virus to humans and that it is now spreading from person to person.  It probably originated in a fish and animal market in the city of Wuhan which has since been closed by the Chinese authorities.	How can you protect yourself against the new coronavirus?  You can find out just how to do that in the section on 'How to protect yourself and others.'  Follow the rules on hygiene and what to do if you experience symptoms.  There is a risk of becoming infected with the new coronavirus in almost all parts of the world.  Increasing numbers of countries are introducing measures such as border closures.  Expect travel restrictions on international journeys.