	Are pets from a shelter safe to adopt?	There is no reason to think that any animals, including shelter pets, in the United States might be a source of COVID-19.	Can animals carry the virus that causes COVID-19 on their skin or fur?	At this time, there is no evidence that the virus that causes COVID-19 can spread to people from the skin or fur of pets.	Talk to your veterinarian about the best ways to care for your pet.	Can I get COVID-19 from my pets or other animals?	There is no reason at this time to think that any animals, including pets, in the United States might be a source of infection with this new coronavirus that causes COVID-19.  To date, CDC has not received any reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19 in the United States.	Pets have other types of coronaviruses that can make them sick, like canine and feline coronaviruses.  These other coronaviruses cannot infect people and are not related to the current COVID-19 outbreak.	However, since animals can spread other diseases to people, it's always a good idea to practice healthy habits around pets and other animals, such as washing your hands and maintaining good hygiene.  For more information on the many benefits of pet ownership, as well as staying safe and healthy around animals including pets, livestock, and wildlife, visit CDC's Healthy Pets, Healthy People website.	Can I travel with or import dogs to the United States during the outbreak?	Please refer to CDC's requirements for bringing a dog to the United States.  The current requirements for rabies vaccination apply to dogs imported from China, a high-risk country for rabies.	Do I need to get my pet tested for COVID-19?	No.  At this time, routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not recommended.	Should I avoid contact with pets or other animals if I am sick with COVID-19?	You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with COVID-19, just like you would around other people.  Although there have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the new coronavirus.  When possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick.  If you are sick with COVID-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food.  If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets.	Should I be concerned about imported animals or animal products?	CDC does not have any evidence to suggest that imported animals or animal products pose a risk for spreading COVID-19 in the United States.  This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available.  The U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ),the U S Department of Agriculture ),and the U.S Fish and Wildlife Service )play distinct but complementary roles in regulating the importation of live animals and animal products into the United States.  CDC regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to human health, USDA regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to agriculture; and FWS regulates importation of endangered species and wildlife that can harm the health and welfare of humans, the interests of agriculture, horticulture, or forestry, and the welfare and survival of wildlife resources.	What precautions should be taken for animals that have recently been imported )from China?	Imported animals will need to meet CDC and USDA requirements for entering the United States.  At this time, there is no evidence that companion animals, including pets and service animals, can spread COVID-19.  As with any animal introduced to a new environment, animals recently imported should be observed daily for signs of illness.  If an animal becomes ill, the animal should be examined by a veterinarian.  Call your local veterinary clinic before bringing the animal into the clinic and let them know that the animal was recently imported from another country.	This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available.