	Are older people and those with existing health conditions the only ones at risk?	Older adults and people with serious chronic medical conditions are at higher risk of serious illness.  But anyone can become sick, and symptoms can range from mild to severe regardless of how old you are or if you have other medical conditions.	Is FEMA deploying the military?	No.  FEMA does not have military personnel.  State governors are responsible for deploying the National Guard if needed.	Is the government sending everyone money?	A stimulus package has been passed by Congress to help Americans in need.  As information becomes available, it will be updated on this site.  Unfortunately, scammers are using COVID-19 to take advantage of people.  Don't trust anyone who tells you they can get you money now.  The Federal Trade Commission )has more information about government scams, including COVID-19 scams.	Is there a national lockdown or quarantine?	No.  States and cities are responsible for announcing curfews, shelters in place, or other restrictions and safety measures.	Should I stock up on food and supplies?	Please only buy what your family needs for a week.  Buying weeks or months of supplies in advance leads to shortages and makes it difficult for other families to take care of themselves.  Consumer demand has been exceptionally high, especially for groceries, cleaning supplies, and healthcare products.  Supply chains haven't been disrupted, but stores need time to restock.	Should I worry about hantavirus?	No.  The main way hantavirus spreads to people is through infected mice and rats.  It is possible to catch hantavirus from another person, but it's extremely rare.  For more information about hantavirus, visit the CDC's website.	Are US Citizenship and Immigration Services offices closed due to COVID-19?	On March 18, 2020 U.S Citizenship and Immigration Services temporarily suspended in-person services at its field offices, asylum offices, and Application Support Centers )to help slow the spread of Coronavirus.	)USCIS offices will reopen on April 7, 2020 unless the public closures are extended further.  Employees in these offices are continuing to perform mission-essential services that do not require face-to-face contact with the public.	USCIS will continue to provide limited emergency services.  Please call the contact center for assistance with emergency services.	Is the Federal government mandating businesses to close because of Coronavirus?	No.  The Federal Government recognizes that State, local, tribal, and territorial governments are ultimately in charge of implementing and executing response activities in communities under their jurisdiction, while the Federal Government is in a supporting role.	Accordingly, the CISA Essential Industry Guidance list is advisory in nature.  It is not, nor should it be considered, a federal directive or standard in and of itself.	While this guidance is not a federal mandate, and final decisions remain at the state and local levels, we firmly believe it can serve as a baseline for a common national approach in prioritizing essential services and workers.