	CDC issues Domestic Travel Advisory for New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut.	The CDC urges residents of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut to refrain from non-essential domestic travel for 14 days effective immediately.  This Domestic Travel Advisory does not apply to employees of critical infrastructure industries, including but not limited to trucking, public health professionals, financial services, and food supply.  These employees of critical infrastructure, as defined by the Department of Homeland Security, have a special responsibility to maintain normal work schedule.  The Governors of New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut will have full discretion to implement this Domestic Travel Advisory.	Should I cancel my international trip?	CDC recommends that travelers avoid all nonessential international travel because of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Some health care systems are overwhelmed and there may be limited access to adequate medical care in affected areas.  Many countries are implementing travel restrictions and mandatory quarantines, closing borders, and prohibiting non-citizens from entry with little advance notice.  Airlines have cancelled many international flights and in-country travel may be unpredictable.  If you choose to travel internationally, your travel plans may be disrupted, and you may have to remain outside the United States for an indefinite length of time.	CDC also recommends all travelers defer all cruise ship travel worldwide.	If you must travel, take the following steps to help reduce your chances of getting sick:	Avoid contact with sick people.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.	It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.  Make sure you are up to date with your routine vaccinations, including measles-mumps-rubella )vaccine and the seasonal flu vaccine.	What happens if there is a sick passenger on my flight?	Under current federal regulations, pilots must report all illnesses and deaths to CDC before arriving to a US destination.  According to CDC disease protocols, if a sick traveler is considered to be a public health risk, CDC works with local and state health departments and international public health agencies to contact passengers and crew exposed to that sick traveler.	Be sure to give the airline your current contact information when booking your ticket so you can be notified if you are exposed to a sick traveler on a flight.	What if I recently traveled and get sick?	See CDC's website about what to do if you get sick.	What is the risk of getting COVID-19 on an airplane?	Because of how air circulates and is filtered on airplanes, most viruses and other germs do not spread easily.  Although the risk of infection on an airplane is low, try to avoid contact with sick passengers and wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or use hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.	Should I travel within the United States?	CDC does not generally issue advisories or restrictions for travel within the United States.  However, cases of coronavirus disease )have been reported in many states, and some areas are experiencing community spread of the disease.  Crowded travel settings, like airports, may increase chances of getting COVID-19, if there are other travelers with coronavirus infection.  There are several things you should consider when deciding whether it is safe for you to travel.	Things to consider before travel:	Is COVID-19 spreading in the area where you're going?  If COVID-19 is spreading at your destination, but not where you live, you may be more likely to get infected if you travel there than if you stay home.  If you have questions about your destination, you should check your destination's local health department website for more information.	Will you or your travel companion( )be in close contact with others during your trip?  Your risk of exposure to respiratory viruses like coronavirus may increase in crowded settings, particularly closed-in settings with little air circulation.  This may include settings such as conferences, public events ),religious gatherings, public spaces ),and public transportation.	)Are you or your travel companion( )more likely to get severe illness if you get COVID-19?  People at higher risk for severe disease are older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions.  )CDC recommends that travelers at higher risk for COVID-19 complications avoid all cruise travel and nonessential air travel.	Do you have a plan for taking time off from work or school, in case you are told to stay home for 14 days for self-monitoring or if you get sick with COVID-19?  If you have close contact with someone with COVID-19 during travel, you may be asked to stay home to self-monitor and avoid contact with others for up to 14 days after travel.  If you become sick with COVID-19, you may be unable to go to work or school until you're considered noninfectious.  You will be asked to avoid contact with others )during this period of infectiousness.	Do you live with someone who is older or has a serious, chronic medical condition?  If you get sick with COVID-19 upon your return from travel, your household contacts may be at risk of infection.  Household contacts who are older adults or persons of any age with severe chronic medical conditions are at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19.	Is COVID-19 spreading where I live when I return from travel?  Consider the risk of passing COVID-19 to others during travel, particularly if you will be in close contact with people who are older adults or have severe chronic health condition These people are at higher risk of getting very sick.  If your symptoms are mild or you don't have a fever, you may not realize you are infectious.	Depending on your unique circumstances, you may choose to delay or cancel your plans.  If you do decide to travel, be sure to take steps to help prevent getting and spreading COVID-19 and other respiratory diseases during travel.  For the most up-to-date COVID-19 travel information, visit CDC COVID-19 Travel page.	Will Real ID implementation be delayed?	Yes.  Department of Homeland Security Acting Secretary Chad F Wolf has indicated the new deadline for REAL ID enforcement is October 1, 2021.	When can I return to work after international travel?	Currently, all international travelers arriving into the US should stay home for 14 days after their arrival.  At home, they are expected to monitor their health and practice social distancing.  To protect the health of others, these travelers should not to go to work or school for 14 days.	Should I go on a cruise?	CDC recommends that all travelers defer all cruise ship travel worldwide.  Recent reports of COVID-19 on cruise ships highlight the risk of infection to cruise ship passengers and crew.  Like many other viruses, COVID-19 appears to spread more easily between people in close quarters aboard ships.	What can I expect when arriving to the United States?	At this time, travel restrictions and entry screening apply only to travelers arriving from some countries or regions with widespread ongoing spread of COVID-19.  [Note: US policies are subject to change as the COVID-19 pandemic evolves].	If you are coming from a country or a region with widespread ongoing transmission of COVID-19 ),you may be screened when you arrive in the United States.  After you arrive home, take the following steps to protect yourself and others:	Stay at home.  Do not go to work, school, or leave your house for 14 days.  Discuss your work situation with your employer.	Monitor your health.  Take your temperature with a thermometer two times a day and monitor for fever.  )Also watch for cough or trouble breathing.	Practice social distancing within the home.  Avoid contact with other people for the 14 days.  Maintain distance )from family members and others in the home when possible.	If you are coming from a country with ongoing community transmission ),take the following steps to protect yourself and others:	Monitor your health.  Take your temperature with a thermometer two times a day and monitor for fever.  )Also watch for cough or trouble breathing.	Practice social distancing.  Stay out of crowded places and avoid group gatherings.  Do not go to shopping malls or to the movies.  Keep your distance from others.  )Do not take public transportation, taxis, or ride-shares during this time.	Check CDC's Coronavirus Disease 2019 )Travel webpage to find the current travel health notice level for your international travel.	What can I expect when departing from other countries?	Be aware that some countries are conducting exit screening for all passengers leaving their country.  Before being permitted to board a departing flight, you may have your temperature taken and be asked questions about your travel history and health.	I'm an American citizen and I recently traveled to one of the countries under travel restrictions.  Can I return to the United States?	Yes.  American citizens, legal permanent residents, and their immediate families can return to the United States.	American citizens, legal permanent residents, and their immediate families who are returning home to the U.S to travel through one of 13 airports upon arrival to the U.S, submit to an enhanced entry screening and self-quarantine for 14 days once they reach their final destination.	I'm an American citizen and I recently traveled to one of the countries under travel restrictions.  Can I return to the United States?	Yes.  American citizens, legal permanent residents, and their immediate families can return to the United States.	American citizens, legal permanent residents, and their immediate families who are returning home to the U.S to travel through one of 13 airports upon arrival to the U.S, submit to an enhanced entry screening and self-quarantine for 14 days once they reach their final destination.	Which 13 airports have the enhanced travel screening measures for international travelers?	Which countries are under U.S travel restrictions because of the Coronavirus?	Are the Northern and Southern Borders of the United States closed?	In order to limit the further spread of coronavirus, the U.S has reached agreements with both Canada and Mexico to limit all non-essential travel across borders.	"Non-essential" travel includes travel that is considered tourism or recreational in nature.	Supply chains, including trucking, will not be impacted by this measure.  Those who cross the land border every day to do essential work or for other urgent or essential reasons, and that travel will not be impacted.	These measures were implemented on March 21, 2020.	Are illegal immigrants being held by Customs and Border Protection )during the Coronavirus pandemic?	To help prevent the introduction of Coronavirus into our border facilities and into our country, illegal aliens subject to the order will not be held by CBP, and instead will immediately be turned away from ports of entry.	Those encountered between ports of entry after illegally crossing the border similarly will not be held for processing and instead, will immediately be returned to their country of last transit.	These aliens are processed in stations designed for short-term processing, where distancing is not a viable option, creating serious danger of an outbreak.	When will the borders reopen?	Limits on non-essential travel were implemented on March 21, 2020 and will be in place for 30 days, at which point it will be reviewed by the United States, Canada and Mexico.	Should travelers wear facemasks or coverings?	In the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, CDC recommends that everyone wear a cloth face covering over their nose and mouth when in the community setting, including during travel if they must travel.  This as an additional public health measure people should take to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in addition to )social distancing, frequent hand cleaning and other everyday preventive actions.  A cloth face covering is not intended to protect the wearer, but may prevent the spread of virus from the wearer to others.  This would be especially important in the event that someone is infected but does not have symptoms.  Medical masks and N-95 respirators are still reserved for healthcare workers and other first responders, as recommended by current CDC guidance.