																	These additional considerations are intended to provide guidance for a range of child care programs, including:					Temporary child care centers operated by municipalities for the children of essential service providers, such as first responders, healthcare workers, transit workers, and/or other industries where a parent cannot stay home 	Child care centers that partner with healthcare facilities to support healthcare workers who need child care 	This information is intended for child care programs that remain open, and should be used in conjunction with CDC's guidance for administrators of child care programs and K-12 schools.  This guidance does not supersede state and local laws and policies for child care programs.		As you think about how your facility will deal with the impact of COVID-19, it is important to work with your local health officials, school districts, childcare licensing boards/bodies, childcare accreditation bodies, health consultants, and other community partners to determine the most appropriate plan and action.  This document is meant to help administrators create emergency operations plans and tailor them to your community's level of transmission.		No matter the level of transmission in a community, every child care program should have a plan in place to protect staff, children, and their families from the spread of COVID-19.	See CDC's guidance for more details.		Encourage staff to take everyday preventive actions to prevent the spread of respiratory illness.	Wash hands often with soap and water.  If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.  Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.  Remember to supervise young children when they use hand sanitizer to prevent swallowing alcohol.		Plan ahead to ensure adequate supplies to support hand hygiene behaviors and routine cleaning of objects and surfaces.  If you have difficulty in obtaining these supplies, please contact your local Child Care Resource and Referral )Agency which can be found under "Resources" at Child Care Aware of America.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces.	Require sick children and staff to stay home.	Communicate to parents the importance of keeping children home when they are sick.	Establish procedures to ensure children and staff who come to the child care center sick or become sick while at your facility are sent home as soon as possible.	Keep sick children and staff separate from well children and staff until they can be sent home.	Plan to have an isolation room or area )that can be used to isolate a sick child.	Follow CDC's guidance on how to disinfect your building or facility if someone is sick.	Monitor and Plan for Absenteeism Among Your Staff.	Develop plans to cover classes in the event of increased staff absences.  Coordinate with other local child care programs and reach out to substitutes to determine their anticipated availability if regular staff members need to stay home if they or their family members are sick.	Recommend that individuals at high risk of serious disease from COVID-19 consult with their medical provider to assess their risk and to determine if they should stay home if there is an outbreak in their community.	Review plans for implementing social distancing strategies.	Social distancing focuses on remaining out of congregate settings, avoiding mass gatherings, and maintaining distance from others when possible.  Detailed guidance for implementing social distancing strategies in child care centers and schools is found here.	Assess Group Gatherings and Events.	Follow current guidance about gatherings and events.	Plan to limit nonessential visitors and postpone or cancel use of classroom volunteers.		Child care programs that remain open during the COVID-19 pandemic should address these additional considerations:				Maintain an adequate ratio of staff to children to ensure safety.	Plan ahead and recruit those with child care experience to ensure you have a roster of substitute caregivers who can fill in if your staff members are sick or stay home to care for sick family members.	Note: Some schools, child care programs, and service organizations are supporting their communities by providing temporary or emergency child care services for the children of essential service providers such as first responders, healthcare workers, transit or food retail workers, and/or persons who do not have paid leave, cannot work from home, or do not have a family caregiver at home.	If you re-purpose your school or service facility as an emergency or temporary child care center, please follow CDC guidance for administrators of child care programs and K-12 schools.  Be sure to follow state and local childcare licensing policies and regulations.  Specifically, all facilities should continue to adhere to their state and local licensing policies unless otherwise notified by their local health department.  Guidance may also be provided by the department of education and/or department of health in your state, city, or locality.		Work with your local health officials to determine a set of strategies appropriate for your community's situation.  Continue using preparedness strategies and consider the following social distancing strategies:	If possible, child care classes should include the same group each day, and the same child care providers should remain with the same group each day.  If your child care program remains open, consider creating a separate classroom or group for the children of healthcare workers and other first responders.  If your program is unable to create a separate classroom, consider serving only the children of health care workers and first responders.	Cancel or postpone special events such as festivals, holiday events, and special performances.	Consider whether to alter or halt daily group activities that may promote transmission.	Keep each group of children in a separate room.	Limit the mixing of children, such as staggering playground times and keeping groups separate for special activities such as art, music, and exercising.	If possible, at nap time, ensure that children's naptime mats )are spaced out as much as possible, ideally 6 feet apart.  Consider placing children head to toe in order to further reduce the potential for viral spread.	Consider staggering arrival and drop off times and/or have child care providers come outside the facility to pick up the children as they arrive.  Your plan for curb side drop off and pick up should limit direct contact between parents and staff members and adhere to social distancing recommendation.	If possible, arrange for administrative staff to telework from their homes.		Caring for Our Children sets national policy for cleaning, sanitizing and disinfection of educational facilities for children.  Toys that can be put in the mouth should be cleaned and sanitized.  )Other hard surfaces, including diaper changing stations, door knobs, and floors can be disinfected.	Intensify cleaning and disinfection efforts:	Facilities should develop a schedule for cleaning and disinfecting.  An example can be found here.	Routinely clean, sanitize, and disinfect surfaces and objects that are frequently touched, especially toys and games.  This may also include cleaning objects/surfaces not ordinarily cleaned daily such as doorknobs, light switches, classroom sink handles, countertops, nap pads, toilet training potties, desks, chairs, cubbies, and playground structures.  Use the cleaners typically used at your facility.  Guidance is available for the selection of appropriate sanitizers or disinfectants for childcare settings.	Use all cleaning products according to the directions on the label.  For disinfection, most common EPA-registered, fragrance-free household disinfectants should be effective.  A list of products that are EPA-approved for use against the virus that causes COVID-19 is available here.  If surfaces are dirty, they should be cleaned using a detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.  Follow the manufacturer's instructions for concentration, application method, and contact time for all cleaning and disinfection products.	If possible, provide EPA-registered disposable wipes to child care providers and other staff members so that commonly used surfaces such as keyboards, desks, and remote controls can be wiped down before use.  If wipes are not available, please refer to CDC's guidance on disinfection for community settings..	All cleaning materials should be kept secure and out of reach of children.	Cleaning products should not be used near children, and staff should ensure that there is adequate ventilation when using these products to prevent children from inhaling toxic fumes.		Toys that cannot be cleaned and sanitized should not be used.	Toys that children have placed in their mouths or that are otherwise contaminated by body secretion or excretion should be set aside until they are cleaned by hand by a person wearing gloves.  Clean with water and detergent, rinse, sanitize with an EPA-registered disinfectant, and air-dry or clean in a mechanical dishwasher.  Be mindful of items more likely to be placed in a child's mouth, like play food, dishes, and utensils.	Machine washable cloth toys should be used by one individual at a time or should not be used at all.  These toys should be laundered before being used by another child.	Do not share toys with other groups of infants or toddlers, unless they are washed and sanitized before being moved from one group to the other.	Set aside toys that need to be cleaned.  Place in a dish pan with soapy water or put in a separate container marked for "soiled toys."  Keep dish pan and water out of reach from children to prevent risk of drowning.  Washing with soapy water is the ideal method for cleaning.  Try to have enough toys so that the toys can be rotated through cleanings.	Children's books, like other paper-based materials such as mail or envelopes, are not considered as a high risk for transmission and do not need additional cleaning or disinfection procedures.		Use bedding )that can be washed.  Keep each child's bedding separate, and consider storing in individually labeled bins, cubbies, or bags.  Cots and mats should be labeled for each child.  Bedding that touches a child's skin should be cleaned weekly or before use by another child.		Hand hygiene stations should be set up at the entrance of the facility, so that children can clean their hands before they enter.  If a sink with soap and water is not available, provide hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol next to parent sign-in sheets.  If possible, place sign-in stations outside.  Keep hand sanitizer out of children's reach and supervise use.  Consider staggering arrival and drop off times and/or plan to limit direct contact with parents as much as possible.	Have child care providers greet children outside as they arrive.	Designate a parent to be the drop off/pick up volunteer to walk all children to their classroom, and at the end of the day, walk all children back to their cars.	Infants could be transported in their car seats.  Store car seat out of children's reach.	Ideally, the same parent or designated person should drop off and pick up the child every day.  If possible, older people such as grandparents should not pick up their children, because they are more at risk for serious illness.	Persons who have a fever or other signs of illness should not be admitted to the facility.  Encourage parents to be on the alert for signs of illness in their children and to keep them home when they are sick.  Screen children upon arrival, if possible:	Conduct temperature screening, using the protocol provided below.	Make a visual inspection of the child for signs of infection, which could include flushed cheeks, fatigue, extreme fussiness, etc.		The following is a protocol to safely check an individual's temperature:		Put on a face mask, eye protection ),gown/coveralls, and a single pair of disposable gloves 		If performing a temperature check on multiple individuals, ensure that a clean pair of gloves is used for each individual and that the thermometer has been thoroughly cleaned in between each check.  If disposable or non-contact thermometers are used and the screener did not have physical contact with an individual, gloves do not need to be changed before the next check.  If non-contact thermometers are used, they should be cleaned routinely as recommended by CDC for infection control.				When diapering a child, wash your hands and wash the child's hands before you begin, and wear gloves, if possible.  Follow safe diaper changing procedures.  Procedures should be posted in all diaper changing areas.  Steps include:								After diapering, wash your hands )and disinfect the diapering area with a fragrance-free bleach that is EPA-registered as a sanitizing or disinfecting solution.  If other products are used for sanitizing or disinfecting, they should also be fragrance-free and EPA registered.  If the surface is dirty, it should be cleaned with detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.	If reusable cloth diapers are used, they should not be rinsed or cleaned in the facility.  The soiled cloth diaper and its contents )should be placed in a plastic bag or into a plastic-lined, hands-free covered diaper pail to give to parents/guardians or laundry service.	Posters with diaper changing procedures are available here.	It is important to comfort crying, sad, and/or anxious infants and toddlers, and they often need to be held.  When washing, feeding, or holding very young children:	Child care providers can protect themselves by wearing an over-large button-down, long sleeved shirt and by wearing long hair up off the collar in a ponytail or other updo.	Child care providers should wash their hands, neck, and anywhere touched by a child's secretions.	Child care providers should change the child's clothes if secretions are on the child's clothes.  They should change the button-down shirt, if there are secretions on it, and wash their hands again.	Contaminated clothes should be placed in a plastic bag or washed in a washing machine.  Infants, toddlers, and their providers should have multiple changes of clothes on hand in the child care center or home-based child care.	School nurses should use Standard and Transmission-Based Precautions when caring for patients with confirmed or possible COVID-19.  See: What Healthcare Personnel Should Know about Caring for Patients with Confirmed or Possible COVID-19 Infection.		All children, staff, and volunteers should engage in hand hygiene at the following times:											Wash hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  If hands are not visibly dirty, alcohol-based hand sanitizers with at least 60% alcohol can be used if soap and water are not readily available.	Supervise children when they use hand sanitizer to prevent ingestion.	Assist children with handwashing, including infants who cannot wash hands alone.	After assisting children with handwashing, staff should also wash their hands.	Place posters describing handwashing steps near sinks.  Developmentally appropriate posters in multiple languages are available from CDC.		If a cafeteria or group dining room is typically used, serve meals in classrooms instead.  If meals are typically served family-style, plate each child's meal to serve it so that multiple children are not using the same serving utensils.	Food preparation should not be done by the same staff who diaper children.	Sinks used for food preparation should not be used for any other purposes.	Caregivers should ensure children wash hands prior to eating.	Caregivers should wash their hands before preparing food and after helping children to eat.	Facilities should follow all other local regulations and guidance related to safe preparation of food.		Children and adults with serious underlying medical conditions, as well as older adults, are believed to be at higher risk for more serious complications from COVID-19.  To protect those at higher risk, it's important that everyone practices healthy hygiene behaviors.	If you have staff members or teachers age 65 or older, or with underlying medical conditions, encourage them to talk to their medical provider to assess their risk and to determine if they should stay home.	Information about COVID-19 in children is somewhat limited, but the information that is available suggests that children have mild symptoms.  However, a small percentage of children have been reported to have more severe illness.  If you have children with underling health conditions, talk to their parents about their risk.	If you have children with disabilities, talk to their parents about how their children can continue to receive the support they need.		CDC's website contains a variety of resources for childcare programs and K-12 schools, including detailed guidance, considerations for closures, and frequently asked questions for administrators, teachers, and parents.  Together, these resources provide additional information on:	What to do if a child or staff member at your facility becomes sick.	Closures of child care programs.	The resources emphasize that any decision about temporary closures of child care programs or cancellation of related events should be made in coordination with your local health officials.  Child care programs are not expected to make decisions about closures on their own.  The resources also address steps to ensure continuity of meal programs and other essential services if your facility is closed however additional government resources related to meals and snacks can be found here: 	Guidance is also available on these topics:																																																																																																																																																																																																																						