What is a safe distance from other people?

People who live together can continue to socialise in the normal way.
You can have visitors, but only a few people at a time.
You can go out, but you should keep a safe distance from other people.
Healthy children can socialise together in small groups.
Remember good hand and cough hygiene!
Do not shake hands or hug anyone other than those you live with.
Show consideration for others; do not stigmatise or shut anyone out.

The measures being implemented to combat COVID-19 are primarily aimed at protecting those at risk from infection.

You are considered to be at risk if you are over 65 or are an adult with heart disease, lung disease, diabetes, cancer or high blood pressure.

Adults who are obese or who smoke may also be at risk.
Anyone who is at risk must be particularly thorough with their hygiene and maintain a safe
distance from others.

You can socialise normally with people you live with, but you should avoid having visitors.
Do not go to school or work.
Do not travel by public transport.
You can go for a walk provided you maintain a safe distance from other people.
You can go to the grocery store or pharmacy if absolutely necessary.

The people you live with are not in quarantine.
A negative test will not shorten the quarantine period.
You may be partially exempt if you are a key worker.
You must self-isolate immediately if you are experiencing the symptoms of a respiratory
infection after having been in close contact with someone else.

You must stay at home as soon as you notice the symptoms of a respiratory infection until at least 24 hours after you have completely recovered.
Maintain a safe distance from everyone else in your home.
The people you live with are not in quarantine, but they should monitor their own health. If they experience any symptoms, they should stay at home as well.

You must not leave your home.
Maintain a safe distance from everyone else in your home.
Use a separate room and bathroom wherever possible.
Wash surfaces frequently.
Ask someone else to do your shopping.
Agree with your doctor how you should monitor your health.
The people you live with must go into quarantine.



