	How can we prevent infection?  What should people who have been to the outbreak areas do if they become sick?  Which measures are not recommended and why?  The information and advice will be updated based on how the outbreak develops and current knowledge about the disease.		The novel coronavirus COVID-19 was discovered in January 2020.  The information and advice will be updated based on how the outbreak develops and current knowledge about the disease.	What should you do if you suspect that you are sick?	If you have mild respiratory symptoms you should stay at home until the day after you feel well again.  You do not need to contact the health service for testing.  This is to limit the use of testing and resources.  The exception is if you are healthcare personnel, if you are over 65 years or if you have been in close contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19.	If you have more serious symptoms, such as breathing difficulties, contact your doctor by telephone.  If you cannot reach your doctor, ring the emergency out-of-hours clinic.  )If you develop other acute symptoms for which you would normally seek medical attention, it is important that you contact the healthcare service.  Suspected COVID-19 disease should not prevent you getting the help you need.	COVID-19 disease is transmitted mainly by droplet and contact transmission.	The advice about social distancing is intended to limit and delay the COVID-19 outbreak.	Good cough etiquette and good hand hygiene, and try to avoid touching your face.		Avoid shaking hands, and avoid kissing and hugging people you do not live with.	Keep a good distance from others, both at work, outside and other places you visit.	Limit the number of people you have close contact with, or are visited by, to a few at a time.	Healthy children can be together both inside and outside, but in small groups.	Postpone large gatherings that are not essential.	Avoid social stigma and exclusion.	If you have fever or respiratory symptoms you should stay at home until a day after you are well again.	This advice is especially important for people in risk groups.	See also:	People who are in home quarantine are healthy but have been in a situation where they may have been infected.  This applies to everyone who has been travelling abroad and people who have been told by the healthcare service that they are defined as a close contact for someone with a confirmed case of COVID-19.	This applies for people in home quarantine:	Do not go to work or school.	You can be in normal contact with household members if none of them are sick.	Do not take long trips in Norway or travel abroad.	Do not use public transport.	Avoid places where it is difficult to maintain a distance from other people.	As a rule, you should not visit public places like shops and cafes.  If there is no alternative, you may go out to carry out a necessary errand to the shop or pharmacy, but ensure that you maintain distance )from other people and avoid queues.	You can go for a walk, but keep a distance of at least 1 and preferably 2 metres from others.	Be alert for any symptoms.  If you develop a fever or respiratory symptoms, you should isolate yourself as soon as possible.	Even if you develop symptoms during the quarantine period and receive a negative test result for COVID-19, the quarantine period will not be cut short.	The aim of quarantine is to avoid infecting others before you develop symptoms yourself.	If you live with a person who is in home quarantine, you are not in quarantine but you should monitor your own symptoms, like the rest of the population.	People with essential roles in safeguarding operations linked to life and health may be exempt from quarantine obligations when they are at work.	People who have been diagnosed with, or are being tested for COVID-19 must be isolated, either at home, in health institutions or elsewhere.	This applies for people in isolation:	Do not leave your home, although you can go into your own garden or your own balcony.	Keep at least 2 metres distance between you and the people you live with, if possible.	If possible, use a separate room and bathroom.  Use your own towel and toiletries.	Clean the house frequently.	Ring the healthcare service if you need medical attention.	Agree with your doctor how you should monitor your condition.	The people you live with are in quarantine.	Isolation lasts until 7 days after you have recovered.	See also:	Wash hands frequently and thoroughly with soap and lukewarm water, particularly after coughing or sneezing, after using the toilet, before preparing food, before meals, after contact with animals and if your hands are visibly dirty.  Wash your hands after coming home when you have been in contact with other people.	Hand disinfection products are effective against the coronavirus are a good alternative if hand washing is unavailable.  If your hands are visibly dirty or wet, hand disinfection has a limited effect so hands should be cleaned with soap and water.	Avoid coughing or sneezing directly onto others.	Try to cough /sneeze into a paper tissue ),or into the crook of the elbow if you do not have tissues to hand.	In households without confirmed cases, cleaning can be carried out as normal.  Ordinary cleaning products can be used.	In households with confirmed cases and home isolation, see our article about:	Currently, there is no indication that there is any risk associated with the purchase of goods and receipt of parcels from areas with widespread transmission.  The probability of infection an infected person touching the package is low and the risk of infection is low from a package that has been exposed to different temperature and other conditions under transit.	To prevent transmission of COVID-19, on the 12th March, the Norwegian Directorate of Health announced a ban against, and closure of, various events and facililities.	Each country can introduce measures and restrictions to prevent further infection, for example, transport restrictions, quarantine and other measures that can have consequences for travellers.							SARS-CoV-2 is the name of the virus that is causing the outbreak of COVID-19 disease.	The virus is related to another coronavirus that caused the SARS outbreak in 2002/2003 but is not the same virus.