The new coronavirus is attracting a lot of attention. Most people who develop coronavirus disease (COVID-19) only suffer mild symptoms, but some people can become very ill. This is why we are trying to slow the spread of infection across the country.
Some people have been asked by their doctor to stay at home. Anyone who is diagnosed with COVID-19 must be completely isolated from other people through so-called ‘home isolation’. Anyone who has not been diagnosed with COVID-19, but may have been exposed to infection, must be placed in so-called ‘home quarantine’.
What does ‘home isolation’ mean?
If your doctor has told you that you have COVID-19 or if you are waiting for your test results, you must avoid all contact with other people so that you do not infect others.
Home isolation means that you must be isolated from everyone else, including people you live with. You must not go out, you should remain in a room by yourself, eat in the room and not share towels with anyone else.
If your condition deteriorates, contact your doctor by phone. The doctor may also decide that you need to be isolated in hospital. Isolation lasts until your doctor tells you that you are infection-free or until your test result shows that you do not have COVID- 19.
What does ‘home quarantine’ mean?
If your doctor has told you that you are not ill, but that you have been exposed to infection, you must go into quarantine. You must stay at home, but home quarantine is not as strict as home isolation.
Home quarantine means you must reduce your contact with other people as much as possible, but you do not have to be completely isolated. You must not go to school or work, or do any other activities, and you must not travel on public transport (bus, tram,underground, train, air or ferry), but you can go for walks on your own.

If you start coughing, develop a throat infection or fever or experience difficulty breathing, contact a doctor by phone. Home quarantine lasts for 14 days after you have been exposed to infection.
Keep updated!

The government asks everyone in Norway to read the important information and advice given about coronavirus at www.fhi.no and www.helsenorge.no. This advice is updated regularly. The information is available in both Norwegian and English. If you find it difficult to understand anything, please ask someone you know for help.