
What are coronaviruses?
Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that can cause illness in people and animals. The
common cold is an example of a coronavirus.

What is the novel coronavirus?
A novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously identified.

What is SARS-CoV-2?
SARS-CoV-2 is the virus that causes COVID-19. “SARS” stands for severe acute
respiratory syndrome, “CoV” stands for coronavirus. This virus is similar to the SARS
virus that emerged in China in 2002, hence the number “2.”

What is COVID-19?
COVID-19 (“Coronavirus Disease 2019”) is an infectious respiratory disease caused by
a new (novel) coronavirus that initially emerged in Wuhan Provence, China in December
2019.

What are the symptoms?
Reported illnesses have ranged from mild symptoms to severe illness and death for
confirmed COVID-19 cases. Most patients with confirmed COVID-19 develop fever
and/or symptoms of acute respiratory illness (e.g., cough, difficulty breathing). Some
people with the infection have no symptoms.

How is it spread?
The virus that causes COVID-19 spreads person to person. At this time, it appears that
COVID-19 spread is caused primarily through respiratory droplets (meaning moisture
that comes from coughing and sneezing).

How soon after exposure do symptoms occur?
Symptoms typically appear 2-14 days after exposure.

Who is at risk for COVID-19?
Currently, those at greatest risk of infection are persons who have had prolonged,
unprotected close contact with a patient with symptomatic, confirmed COVID-19. These
include healthcare workers and household members. Those who live in or have recently
been to areas where the virus has spread over a period of time are also at increased
risk.

What does prolonged contact mean?
When assessing a person’s risk of exposure to COVID-19, prolonged contact means
being within close contact of a person with COVID-19 infection for ≥15 minutes.

What does close contact mean?
When assessing a person’s risk of exposure to COVID-19, close contact means being
within 6 feet of a person with COVID-19 while not wearing adequate personal protective
equipment for ≥15 minutes. For example, walking by someone in a store is not
considered close contact.

What does persons under investigation (PUI) mean?
A PUI is a person who is showing signs of illness similar to COVID-19 and are
considered to be at risk of being exposed to the virus. These people are in the process
of being tested for the virus that causes COVID-19.

What are the most reliable sources of COVID-19 information?

Will warm weather stop the outbreak of COVID-19?
It is not yet known whether weather and temperature impact the spread of COVID-19.
Some other viruses, like the common cold and flu, spread more during cold weather
months, but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses during
other months. From the evidence so far, the COVID-19 virus can be transmitted in ALL
AREAS, including areas with hot and humid weather. Regardless of climate, adopt
protective measures if you live in, or travel to an area reporting COVID-19. The best way
to protect yourself against COVID-19 is by frequently washing your hands with soap and
water. If soap and water are unavailable, an alcohol-based hand sanitizer containing at
least 60% alcohol can be used. By doing this, you eliminate viruses that may be on your
hands and avoid infection that could occur by then touching your eyes, mouth, and nose.

Why might someone blame or avoid individuals and groups (create stigma) because of COVID-19? Anyone, regardless of race or ethnicity can get COVID-19. You can help stop the spread of false rumors and fear by sharing the facts.

How can people stop stigma associated with COVID-19?
Tell friends and family that viruses do not target specific racial or ethnic groups. Share
the facts on how COVID-19 actually spreads.

Are there any other emerging or current health issues in the U.S. or other
countries that I should be aware of?
The CDC is constantly monitoring for emerging diseases and responding to disease
outbreaks across the globe.

Is it true that a strand of the bird flu is spreading from the same province of
China where the novel coronavirus originated?
In January 2020, there was a report of avian influenza in Hunan Province, China. This
is a different Province in mainland China than where the novel coronavirus originated
from. Birds are the natural hosts for avian influenza viruses and outbreaks of animal
illness are reported from time to time from around the globe. There are no outbreaks
of avian influenza affecting human health at this time.


Where can I find more information about the coronavirus and COVID-19?

What is the current status of COVID-19 in Virginia? Has anyone been infected?
As of March 19, 2020, there are 94 cases in Virginia. This situation is rapidly evolving.
For the most up to date information, check the VDH website, which is updated daily.

What is VDH doing to prepare for COVID-19?
The Virginia Department of Health (VDH) is working closely with local, state and federal
government partners, community partners, first responders, healthcare providers, and
emergency management partners, to respond to this public health threat.
VDH is also working to prepare state and local health departments, health care systems,
businesses, schools, colleges and universities, and the general public in the event that
widespread transmission of COVID-19 occurs.

What is VDH doing to respond to COVID-19?
See answer above, also: When illness is reported to VDH, our health experts
investigate. VDH assists with testing for COVID-19. If a case of illness is identified, VDH also works to identify those who have had close contact with the patient and monitor
their health closely.

I heard there was a case at X.
This situation is rapidly evolving. For the most up to date information, check the VDH
website, which is updated daily, including maps of counties and independent cities
where cases are reported from.

How is VDH protecting people who may have come into contact with a person with
COVID-19?
VDH works to rapidly identify persons with COVID-19 and others who have been in
close contact with that person. Contacts are assessed based on the types of interactions
they have had with an infected person and monitored closely for symptoms of infection.
VDH is also actively encouraging that those with certain travel exposures, or close,
prolonged contact with a known infected person, or those with mild signs of illness
(fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home in order to minimize the risk of spreading
the infection to others.


Is VDH isolating sick people or quarantining people who have come in contact
with sick people?
Yes, when necessary, VDH is isolating people sick with COVID-19 and quarantining
people assessed as being at high-risk of exposure to the virus that causes COVID-19.


I understand the need to protect patient privacy, but could you report the city that
people being tested for COVID-19 are in? This would incentivize people living in
the area to take extra precautions to prevent the spread of the disease.
For the most up to date information, check the VDH website, which is updated daily,
including maps of counties and independent cities where cases are reported from.
The Virginia Department of Health encourages everyone in Virginia to take extra
precautions to prevent the spread of infectious respiratory disease, regardless of
whether or not COVID-19 has been reported in your location. Take the following
precautions to help protect against influenza, COVID-19, and other infectious respiratory
illnesses: Avoid contact with sick people. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands. Clean your hands often by washing them with soap and water for at least 20
seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%–95% alcohol. Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty. It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose. If you are sick, stay home and rest, even if illness is mild.

Where can I find more information about the coronavirus and COVID-19 in
Virginia?

How do you determine if a person has been exposed to COVID-19?
To be considered exposed to COVID-19, you have to have had close contact with
someone with COVID-19. Close contact includes: Being within 6 feet of a sick person with COVID-19 for about 15 minutes, or Being in direct contact with secretions from a sick person with COVID-19 (e.g., being coughed or sneezed on, kissing, sharing utensils, etc.).

Can I be in the same room with someone who has COVID-19 and not get it?
Being indoors, such as a classroom or hospital waiting room, with a sick person with
COVID-19 and remaining more than 6 feet away, does not put you at a higher risk of
getting sick. Additionally, briefly walking by or being briefly in the same room as a sick
person with COVID-19 does not put you at a higher risk of getting sick.

What should I do if I have had close contact with someone with COVID-19?
VDH recommends that you stay home for 14 days after the last time you saw that
person and practice social distancing. Social distancing means keeping a distance of at
least 6 feet from others. Do not go to work or school during this time period. Avoid all
public spaces, public activities, and group gatherings and do not take public
transportation such as buses, trains taxis, or ride-shares during this time. If necessary,
your local health department can ensure that your basic needs (for example, food and
medication) are being met. Monitor your health closely during this 14-day time period. When monitoring your health, be aware of the most common signs of COVID-19 (fever, cough, shortness of breath). If you develop a fever, cough, or shortness of breath, take appropriate actions. If you have only mild illness, it is important to stay home and rest to prevent spreading infection to others. If you need to seek medical care from a healthcare provider, it is important that you call ahead so that the healthcare team can be prepared to see you and take steps to prevent spreading infection to others. 

How do I monitor my health at home if I believe I have been exposed to COVID-19?
If you have traveled to an area where COVID-19 is spreading in the community or if you
have been in close contact with a person with COVID-19, you should take your
temperature twice daily and remain alert for signs of illness, including fever, cough, or difficulty breathing. When taking your temperature, it is important to not eat, drink, or
exercise for at least 30 minutes. If you develop mild illness, it is important to stay home and rest. It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others!

What do I do if I get sick with a fever (100.4°F or 38°C), cough or have trouble
breathing?

Where can I get more information about monitoring myself after a potential
COVID-19 exposure?

What are the symptoms?
Most patients with confirmed COVID-19 develop fever and/or symptoms of acute respiratory illness (e.g., cough, difficulty breathing). Reported illnesses range from mild symptoms to severe illness and death for confirmed COVID-19 cases. In some cases, people who are infected have no symptoms. It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

What should I do if I think I might be sick with COVID-19?
It depends on the severity of your symptoms. If you have mild illness, it is important to
stay home and rest. Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others. See
additional information below. Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for COVID-19. If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive. If you are sick with COVID-19, or suspect you are infected with the virus that causes COVID-19, follow the steps below to help prevent the disease from spreading to people in your home and community: Stay home: People who are mildly ill with COVID-19 are able to isolate at home during their illness. You should restrict activities outside your home, except for getting medical care. Avoid public areas: Do not go to work, school, or public areas. Avoid public transportation: Avoid using public transportation, ridesharing, or taxis.

Stay away from others: As much as possible, you should stay in a specific room and away from other people in your home. Also, you should use a separate bathroom, if available. Limit contact with pets & animals: You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with COVID-19, just like you would around other people. Although there have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus. When possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick. If you are sick with COVID-19, avoid contact
with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food. If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets and wear a facemask. See COVID-19 and Animals for more information.

Call ahead: If you have a medical appointment, call the healthcare provider and tell them that you have respiratory illness and it is possible you might have COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s office take steps to keep other people from getting infected or exposed. If you do not have a doctor, your local health department may be able to help connect you with a healthcare provider or free clinic in your area.

If you are sick: You should wear a facemask when you are around other people (e.g., sharing a room or vehicle) or pets and before you enter a healthcare provider’s office. If you are caring for others: If the person who is sick is not able to wear a facemask (for example, because it causes trouble breathing), then people who live with the person who is sick should not stay in the same room with them, or they should wear a facemask if they enter a room with the person who is sick.

Cover: Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Dispose: Throw used tissues in a lined trash can. Wash hands: Immediately wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or, if soap and water are not available, clean your hands
with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.

Wash hands: Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food. Hand sanitizer: If soap and water are not readily available, use an
alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel dry. Soap and water: Soap and water are the best option if hands are visibly dirty. Avoid touching: Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.

Do not share: You should not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, or bedding with other people or pets in your home. Wash thoroughly after use: After using these items, they should be washed thoroughly with soap and water.

Clean and disinfect: Practice routine cleaning of high touch surfaces. High touch surfaces include counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures, toilets, phones, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables. Disinfect areas with bodily fluids: Also, clean any surfaces that may have blood, stool, or body fluids on them. Household cleaners: Use a household cleaning spray or wipe, according to the label instructions. Labels contain instructions for safe and effective use of the cleaning product including precautions you should take when applying the product, such as wearing gloves and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product.

Seek medical attention: Seek prompt medical attention if your illness is
worsening (e.g., difficulty breathing). Call your doctor: Before seeking care, call your healthcare provider and tell them that you have, or are being evaluated for, COVID-19.
Wear a facemask when sick: Put on a facemask before you enter the facility. These steps will help the healthcare provider’s office to keep other people in the office or waiting room from getting infected or exposed. Alert health department: Ask your healthcare provider to call the local health department. Persons who are placed under active monitoring or facilitated self-monitoring should follow instructions provided by their local health department or occupational health professionals, as appropriate.

Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for COVID-19. If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive.

Who is at risk for serious illness from COVID-19?
Older people (≥60 years of age) are at greater risk for serious illness. Additionally, those with certain underlying medical conditions (listed below) might be at increased risk for serious illness from COVID-19.

Chronic liver disease as defined by your doctor. (e.g., cirrhosis, chronic hepatitis). Patient has been told to avoid or reduce the dose of medications because of liver disease or is under treatment for liver disease.

Neurological and neurologic and neurodevelopment conditions [including disorders of the brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerve, and muscle such as cerebral palsy, epilepsy (seizure disorders), stroke, intellectual disability, moderate to severe developmental delay, muscular dystrophy, or spinal cord injury].

How do you test a person for COVID-19? See Testing for COVID-19 (below).

I traveled to an area affected by COVID-19 and have been sick ever since I got back. Should I be tested for the Coronavirus?
It depends on the severity of your symptoms. If you have mild illness, it is important to
stay home and rest. It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: If you have a medical emergency and
need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for
COVID-19. If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive.
See additional guidance above, “What should I do if I think I might be sick with COVID19?”

I traveled to an area NOT affected by COVID-19 and have been sick ever since I got
back. Should I be tested for the Coronavirus?
There are many causes of respiratory illness. If you have mild illness, it is important to
stay home and rest. It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.
Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: If you have a medical emergency and
need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for
COVID-19. If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive.
See additional guidance above, “What should I do if I think I might be sick with COVID19?”

I’m sick and was instructed to isolate at home. How do I know when home isolation can be discontinued?
If you are sick and have confirmed or suspected COVID-19 and have been directed to
isolate at home, you can stop home isolation under the following conditions: You have had no fever for at least 72 hours (that is three full days of no fever
without the use of medicine that reduces fevers) AND Other symptoms have improved (for example, when your cough or shortness of breath have improved) AND At least 7 days have passed since your symptoms first appeared.

What is the recommended treatment for COVID-19 and other coronaviruses?
There is no specific treatment for coronavirus infections. Treatment consists of supportive care and relief of symptoms. For persons with mild illness, this includes
staying home to rest, drinking plenty of fluids, and practicing home isolation and social
distancing within the household to avoid spreading infection to others. For persons with more serious illness, you should call your healthcare provider and follow their recommendations for treatment and self-care. For persons with a medical emergency, call 911. If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for, COVID-19. If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive. Please consult a licensed physician or other healthcare provider for additional recommendations about disease treatment.

I heard about antiviral medications available for COVID-19.
Some medications are being evaluated for potential use. At this time, there are no FDA approved medications available to treat COVID-19. Please consult a licensed physician
or other healthcare provider for additional recommendations about disease treatment.

Is it safe to take ibuprofen if I have COVID-19?
There is currently no scientific evidence to show that taking ibuprofen while sick with
COVID-19 will lead to worsening illness. For persons looking for a medication to reduce
their fever, acetaminophen might be preferable. Both acetaminophen and ibuprofen, like
any other medication, can have serious side effects. You should consult with your
healthcare provider if you are unsure what the best medication is for you.

Is drinking bleach an effective treatment?
No, it is not, and neither is any other heavy duty household cleaner. Drinking bleach or
other disinfectants is very dangerous and can cause death. Please consult a licensed
physician or other healthcare provider for treatment recommendations.


What exactly is the test for COVID-19?
The COVID-19 test, developed by CDC and used at the state public health lab in
Virginia, tests samples from a person’s upper respiratory tract for the presence of
genetic material from SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.

Does the test for COVID-19 need to be manufactured?
Yes, just like any other medical diagnostic test, the materials and supplies necessary to
perform the test need to be manufactured. Once manufactured, the test is distributed to
labs capable of performing testing. Sometimes it can take a bit of time to manufacture
and distribute tests, especially if the test is in high demand.

Should I get tested for COVID-19?
Your healthcare provider will determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19 and might
consult with your local health department if needed.

How do you test a person for COVID-19?
Swabs are taken from the back of the nose (and sometimes from the mouth as well) and
tested for the presence of the virus that causes COVID-19.

Where can I get tested for COVID-19?
Your healthcare provider will determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19. If the
healthcare provider determines that testing is indicated, they might either collect
samples to test you or provide you with information about where to go locally for testing.
Testing is now available through the state public health lab and some private
laboratories, such as LabCorp and Quest. More private labs are expected to start testing
soon. Your healthcare provider should work directly with the private lab to follow that
lab’s instructions about how to perform the test. Your healthcare provider does NOT
need VDH approval for testing through a private lab. 

VDH approval IS needed for testing at DCLS. Your healthcare provider will work with
your local health department to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19. If
indicated, they will provide you with information regarding next steps for testing.
DO NOT INSTRUCT CALLERS TO CONTACT DCLS DIRECTLY.

Can I get tested for COVID-19 at the local health department?
At this time, most local health departments are not doing testing for COVID-19. Your
healthcare provider will determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19 and might
consult with your local health department if needed. If you do not have a healthcare
provider, your local health department may be able to help connect you with a
healthcare provider or free clinic in your area.

Is it true that Virginia now has drive-through testing?
Sentara was briefly offering drive-through testing for people with symptoms of COVID19. Due to limited testing supplies, drive-through service is not currently available. State
and federal partners are working hard to increase testing availability and will share
additional information with the public when more details are known. Testing of sick
people for COVID-19 can still be performed through in-clinic consultation with your
healthcare provider.

Will anyone come to my home to test me for COVID-19?
No, no one will come to your home to test you for COVID-19. Your health care provider
will determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19. If the healthcare provider
determines that testing is indicated, they might either collect samples to test you or
provide you with information about where to go locally for testing.

What happens if someone goes to a hospital and they’re told they will not receive
a test even if they’re experiencing symptoms?
Your healthcare provider will determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19 and might
consult with your local health department if needed. If your healthcare provider has
determined that you do not need to be tested for COVID-19, you should follow your
healthcare provider’s guidance regarding any necessary treatment or self-care.

Can a person test negative and later test positive for COVID-19?
Using the CDC test, a negative result means that the virus that causes COVID-19 was
not found in the person’s sample. In the early stages of infection, it is possible the virus will not be detected. A negative test result for a sample collected while a person has symptoms likely means that the COVID-19 virus is not causing the current illness.

How much does testing cost?
Cost through private labs is not yet available to VDH. If you are sick, you may request
information about cost directly from your health insurance company or your healthcare
provider. If you meet clinical criteria and are tested through DCLS, testing is provided at no cost. If you are a healthcare provider seeking information on testing costs, please
contact the lab you use for additional information.

Does insurance pay for testing?
Many insurance plans cover the cost of testing and related health care costs. For
specific information about your health insurance coverage, call your insurance company.
You can usually find their phone number on your insurance card. Most insurance covers
testing cost without a co-pay.

What if I don’t have insurance?
Virginians who do not have health insurance should contact a free clinic, federally
qualified health center, or emergency department for assistance. Or visit coverVA.org to
see if you qualify for Medicaid. Your local health department might also be able to
connect you with free clinics in your area.

After testing, how will I get my test results?
You will get your test results from the healthcare professional or facility that collected
your specimens. Ask your healthcare provider, when they collect your specimen, what
the best way to get your results is. Most clinics and health care professionals are
providing results by telephone. While VDH does receive COVID-19 test results from private labs, including both positive and negative results, the best way to know how you will get your results is to talk with your healthcare provider.

Where can I find more information about COVID-19 testing?

Where are the high risk travel areas?
Community spread of COVID-19 has been reported from many countries around the world. China, Iran, South Korea, the U.K., Ireland and parts of Europe are considered to be the highest risk areas, but there is elevated concern for all international travel. Older adults and people with chronic medical conditions should consider postponing travel. CDC recommends postponing travel to high risk areas (China, Iran, South Korea, U.K., Ireland and parts of Europe).
All other travelers should take additional precautions (e.g. avoid contact with sick people; wash hands or use hand sanitizer frequently; monitor health and limit interactions with others for 14 days after travel; and seek medical attention for cough, fever or trouble breathing).

I am planning to travel to X country in X time? Should I cancel my trip?
CDC provides recommendations on postponing or canceling travel. These are called travel notices and are based on assessment of potential health risks involved with traveling to a certain area. 
Warning Level 3: CDC recommends travelers avoid all nonessential travel to destinations with level 3 travel notices because of the risk of getting COVID-19.
Alert Level 2: Because COVID-19 can be more serious in older adults and those with chronic medical conditions, people in these groups should talk to a healthcare provider and consider postponing travel to destinations with level 2 travel notices.
Watch Level 1: CDC does not recommend canceling or postponing travel to destinations with level 1 travel notices because the risk of COVID-19 is thought to be low. If you travel, take the following routine precautions: Avoid contact with sick people.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.
Clean your hands often by washing them with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%–95% alcohol. Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty.It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.

Are layovers included in CDC’s recommendation to avoid nonessentialtravel?

Yes. Layovers at airports in destinations with level 3 travel notices are included in CDC’s recommendation to avoid nonessential travel. If a layover is unavoidable, CDC recommends that travelers not leave the airport. Travelers with layovers may still be subject to screening and monitoring when entering the United States.

I don’t want to travel because of COVID-19. Can you help me get a refund from my airline or cruise line?
Each company establishes its own refund policies, and VDH cannot change their policies. Some companies may base their policies on CDC’s travel health notices. The decision to post or change the level of a travel health notice is based on the best available science and takes into account numbers of cases, spread of infection over time and geographic area, risk to travelers, and other factors. In some cases, trip cancellation insurance can protect your financial investment in a trip if you need to change your plans in the event of an international outbreak. 


If I fly to country X, am I going to get stuck there, or will I be able to fly back to the U.S.?
This situation is rapidly changing around the globe. It is not possible to predict what travel restrictions other countries may place on persons in their jurisdiction. 
You can search by country for specific information about COVID-19 and other travel issues.

My family member is traveling to the U.S. from X country? Will they be allowed to enter the U.S.?
Currently, the United States has restrictions on people who are not U.S. citizens from parts of Europe, China and Iran. Travelers coming from other countries are not under entry restrictions because of COVID-19 at this time.


Are people entering the U.S. from X being quarantined?
Depending on their travel history, people may be asked to stay home for a period of 14 days after leaving an area with widespread or ongoing community spread (Level 3 Travel Health Notice). Currently this includes parts of Europe, China, Iran, and South Korea.

How are returning travelers from countries with widespread transmission of COVID-19 being screened when they enter the U.S.?
At this time, American citizens, lawful permanent residents, and family members (as specified in the Presidential Proclamation) who have been in countries with a Level 3 Travel Notice in the preceding 14 days will be allowed to enter the United States. Those returning travelers will be funneled to enter the U.S. through one of several designated U.S. airports set up for entry screening and will be screened for illness when they arrive in the U.S.

It appears only flights that have come from X are being observed. Shouldn’t all international travelers be observed?
Right now, VDH is receiving notification from CDC’s Division of Global Migration and Quarantine of returning travelers from China and Iran (and might begin receiving notification of European travelers soon). Travelers from countries affected by COVID-19 are undergoing entry screening at U.S. airports. Additionally, they are advised to practice social distancing for 14 days after leaving an affected area, monitor for signs of illness, and contact their local health department if they become ill.

My loved one returned from X today and is not reporting any symptoms. What are the best practices to protect our family members who all live close together?
If your loved one is returning from an area with a level 2 or 3 travel health notice, they should take additional precautions, as described below: Monitor your health and limit your interactions (i.e. practice social distancing, see below) with others for the 14 days from the time you left the country identified by CDC as a Level 2 Travel Health Notice country. Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, or shortness of breath. Are you having these symptoms?


The Virginia Department of Health recommends the following actions for the traveler:
Stay at home for 14 days from the time you left an area with widespread, ongoing community spread (identified as a Level 3 Travel Health Notice country) and monitor your health. Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, or shortness of breath. Are you having these symptoms?

Social distancing means remaining out of: Public places where close contact with others may occur (such as shopping centers, movie theaters, stadiums). Workplaces (unless the person works in an office space that allows distancing from others).
Schools and other classroom settings.

These restrictions are to be in effect for 14 days from the time the person was possibly exposed.

It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

I traveled to an area affected by COVID-19 and have been sick ever since I got back. Should I be tested for the Coronavirus?

I traveled to an area NOT affected by COVID-19 and have been sick ever since I got back. Should I be tested for the Coronavirus?

After returning from X, when can an employee return to work?
Currently, people who enter the United States after being in a Level 3 country during the past 14 days will have some level of restrictions on their movements.
If your loved one is returning from an area with a level 2 or 3 travel health notice, they should take additional precautions, as described below: Monitor your health and limit your interactions (i.e. practice social distancing, see below) with others for the 14 days from the time you left the country identified by CDC as a Level 2 Travel Health Notice country. Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, or shortness of breath. Are you having these symptoms?


The Virginia Department of Health recommends the following actions for the traveler:
Stay at home for 14 days from the time you left an area with widespread, ongoing community spread (identified as a Level 3 Travel Health Notice country) and monitor your health. Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough, or shortness of breath. Are you having these symptoms?

Social distancing means remaining out of: Public places where close contact with others may occur (such as shopping centers, movie theaters, stadiums). Workplaces (unless the person works in an office space that allows distancing from others).
Schools and other classroom settings.

These restrictions are to be in effect for 14 days from the time the person was possibly exposed.
It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

I am healthy, but recently traveled. My employer wants a letter saying that it is ok for me to go to work. Can VDH provide me with a letter?
If you have any signs of illness, even very mild illness, such as a dry cough or slight fever, it is very important that you stay home and rest. If you need a letter for work / school, please consult with your healthcare provider.

I have roommates that are flying to country X for spring break, and I wanted to report them. Where can I report them to?
Travelers returning to the U.S. from areas with widespread community transmission of COVID-19 will be directed to specific U.S. airports and will be screened. Those travelers might have some level of restriction on their movement depending on their health and travel history.

What are you doing about people returning from overseas and going right back to work?
Travelers returning to the U.S. from areas with widespread community transmission of COVID-19 will be directed to specific U.S. airports and will be screened for fever and symptoms and asked questions about their travel and exposures. Those travelers might have some level of restriction on their movement depending on their health and travel history. VDH is notified of travelers returning from areas considered by the CDC to be at elevated risk for COVID-19 exposure.
Healthy returning travelers from other areas of the world are not subject to the same strict movement and monitoring restrictions and are allowed to return to work and be around other people, providing they show no signs of illness. Depending on where the person is returning from, public health officials might still check in with them to monitor their health.
As travel advisories expand, more returning travelers are impacted. VDH continues to monitor the situation and when necessary, updates policies within the Commonwealth to best utilize public health resources to respond to the threat of COVID-19.
It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

Is it safe to go on a cruise?
CDC currently recommends that travelers defer all cruise travel worldwide. Cruise
passengers are at increased risk of person-to-person spread of infectious diseases,
including COVID-19, and outbreaks of COVID-19 have been reported on several cruise ships.If a person does travel on a cruise, they should stay home for 14 days after returning from travel, monitor their health, and practice social distancing.

What is the risk of getting COVID-19 on an airplane?
Because of how air circulates and is filtered on airplanes, most viruses and other germs do not spread easily on airplanes. Although the risk of infection on an airplane is low, travelers should try to avoid contact with sick passengers and wash their hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or use hand sanitizer that contains 60%– 95% alcohol.

What happens if there is a sick passenger on a flight?
Under current federal regulations, pilots must report to CDC all illnesses and deaths before arriving in the United States. If a sick traveler is considered to be a public health risk, CDC works with local and state health departments and international public health agencies to contact passengers and crew exposed to that sick traveler—according to CDC disease protocols. Be sure to give the airline your current contact information when booking your ticket.

Should I wear a facemask or other protective equipment during travel?
CDC does not recommend travelers wear facemasks to protect themselves from COVID-19. You may choose to wear a mask, but it is more important that you take these steps.
We recommend that everyone follow everyday prevention practices: Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Stay home when you are sick. Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning product. Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing. If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%–95% alcohol.

Where can I find up to date travel information related to COVID-19?
You can search by country for specific information about COVID-19 and other travel issues. May I help you look up your questions on this site?

Where are the high risk travel areas?
The situation in the U.S. is rapidly evolving. Sustained community transmission of COVID-19 is occurring in multiple locations throughout the United States. Travelers should practice enhanced precautions, including: Avoid contact with sick people.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands. Clean your hands often by washing them with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at 60%–95% alcohol. Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty. It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose. Pay attention to your health during travel and for 14 days after you leave.

My loved one just flew back from X - do they need to be tested or quarantined?
There are no movement restrictions (such as quarantine) for healthy travelers within the U.S. travelers returning home can monitor their health and call their healthcare provider if they become sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing. The healthcare provider will determine if testing for COVID-19 is indicated and may consult with your local health department if needed.


My roommate is going to X for Spring Break, do you think he should be traveling now with the coronavirus?
The situation in the U.S. is rapidly evolving. No travel health advisories have been issued from the CDC for areas in the U.S. at this time. Community transmission of COVID-19 is occurring in multiple locations throughout the United States. 

When considering travel in the U.S., CDC advises you consider the following: Is COVID-19 spreading where you are going? If COVID-19 is spreading at your destination, but not where you live, you may be at higher risk of exposure if you travel there. Will you or your travel companion(s) be in close contact with others during your trip? Your risk of exposure to respiratory viruses like COVID-19 may increase in crowded settings, particularly closed-in settings with little air circulation, if there are people in the crowd who are sick. This may include settings such as conferences, public events (like concerts and sporting events), religious gatherings, public spaces (like movie theatres and shopping malls), and public transportation (like buses, metro, trains).

Are you or your travel companion(s) at higher risk of severe illness if you do get COVID-19? People at higher risk for severe disease are older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions (such as heart disease, lung disease, or diabetes). CDC recommends that travelers at higher risk for COVID- 19 complications avoid all cruise travel and nonessential air travel.

Do you have a plan for taking time off from work or school, in case you get exposed to, or are sick with, COVID-19? If you have close contact with someone with COVID-19 during travel, you may be asked to stay home to self-monitor and avoid contact with others for up to 14 days after travel. If you become sick with COVID-19, you may be unable to go to work or school until you’re considered noninfectious. You will be asked to avoid contact with others (including being in public places) during this period of infectiousness.

Do you live with someone who is older or has a severe chronic health condition? If you get sick with COVID-19 upon your return from travel, your household contacts may be at risk of infection. Household contacts who are older adults or have severe chronic medical conditions are at higher risk for severe illness from COVID-19.

Is COVID-19 spreading where you live? Consider the risk of passing COVID-19 to others during travel, particularly if you will be in close contact with people who are older adults or have severe chronic health condition. These people are at higher risk of getting very sick. If your symptoms are mild or you don’t have a fever, you may not realize you are infectious.

Travelers should practice enhanced precautions, including: Avoid contact with sick people. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands. Clean your hands often by washing them with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at 60%–95% alcohol. Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty. It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.Pay attention to your health during travel and for 14 days after you leave.


What are you doing about people traveling and going right back to work?
There are no movement restrictions for healthy travelers within the U.S; they are allowed to return to work and be around other people. It is important that returning travelers experiencing mild illness stay home and rest. Those sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, and in need of medical care should call their healthcare provider. Please call ahead to let them know you need care. The healthcare provider will determine if testing for COVID-19 is needed and might consult with your local health department if needed.
It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

I traveled to an area affected by COVID-19 and have been sick ever since I got back. Should I be tested for the Coronavirus?

I traveled to an area NOT affected by COVID-19 and have been sick ever since I got back. Should I be tested for the Coronavirus?

I am healthy, but recently traveled. My employer wants a letter saying that it is ok for me to go to work. Can VDH provide me with a letter?
If you have any signs of illness, even very mild illness, such as a dry cough or slight fever, it is very important that you stay home and rest. If you need a letter for work / school, please consult with your healthcare provider.

Should I wear a facemask or other protective equipment during travel?
CDC does not recommend travelers wear facemasks to protect themselves from COVID-19. You may choose to wear a mask, but it is more important that you take these steps.
We recommend that everyone follow these prevention practices: Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands. Stay home when you are sick. Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning product.

Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.

If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%–95% alcohol.

How can my business prevent COVID-19 spread?
Governor Northam declared a state of emergency on 3/12/20 due to the impact of COVID-19 in Virginia and encouraged private businesses to explore telework and paid time off options, including for hourly workers. On 3/16/20, President Trump issued new guidance calling for people to avoid gatherings of more than ten people and Governor Northam encourages those in Virginia to follow this guidance.
Businesses should consider their work environment (i.e., ventilation, ability to maintain 6ft. distance between employees, limiting gathering of 10 or more people, ability to telework, and whether or not they provide essential services) when planning for COVID- 19. Actively encourage sick employees to stay home by ensuring that your sick leave policies are flexible and consistent with public health guidance.
It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.
Businesses should also perform routine cleaning for all frequently touched surfaces in the workplace, such as workstations, countertops, and doorknobs. This guidance addresses planning, response when COVID-19 is detected in your community, and follow up. Issues to consider include environmental cleaning, encouraging sick employees to stay home or telework and coverage for essential functions. Would you like for me to walk you through the guidance or send it to you?

I run a food establishment – what should I know about COVID-19?
On 3/16/20, President Trump issued new guidance calling for people to avoid gatherings of more than ten people and Governor Northam encourages those in Virginia to follow this guidance.Food establishments should consider their work environment (i.e., ventilation, ability to maintain 6ft. distance between employees, limiting gathering of ten (10) or more people, ability to telework, and whether or not they provide essential services) when planning for COVID-19. Actively encourage sick employees to stay home by ensuring that your sick leave policies are flexible and consistent with public health guidance.It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! 

There is no evidence that COVID‐19 is spread through food or food shipped from affected regions. Would you like for me to walk you through the guidance or send it to you?

After returning from X, when can an employee return to work?

A worker in my office arrived from Level 2 country recently. Should he/she be allowed to go to work?

I am healthy, but recently traveled. My employer wants a letter saying that it is ok for me to go to work. Can VDH provide me with a letter?
If you have any signs of illness, even very mild illness, such as a dry cough or slight fever, it is very important that you stay home and rest. Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others. If you need a letter for work / school, please consult with your healthcare provider.

My coworker/friend just flew back from X and I don’t want him/her in my office, what should I do?
I’d be glad to walk you through these recommendations. (See also International Travel FAQs for VDH recommendations for travelers returning from countries of concern). Where did your friend/coworker return from? You can also speak with your supervisor or human resources department about your concerns and related workplace policies.


Do you have an email list that our organization can get on to get alerts concerning the Coronavirus to help inform our emergency plan?
Not at this time. 

Where should I direct my staff if they experience any Coronavirus symptoms?
Tell me a little more about your workplace, so I can give you the best information. Are you in a healthcare setting, long-term care facility, or nursing home? IF YES, PUT THE CALLER IN CONTACT WITH THEIR LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
If employees experience fever, cough, or shortness of breath, and illness is mild, the person should be encouraged to stay home and rest.
It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.
Those sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, and in need of medical care should call their healthcare provider. Please call ahead to the healthcare provider to let them know you need care. The healthcare provider can evaluate your employee’s illness and determine if they need to be tested for the virus that causes COVID-19.

Also, we would welcome any booklets or information that VDH has to assist in developing an organizational contingency plan.
Would you like for me to walk you through these materials or send any to you?

Is there any reporting structure where we are supposed to report employees that test positive for the Coronavirus if they deal with the public? Physicians and medical facilities are required to report any unusual occurrence of diseases of public health concern, including COVID-19, to their local health department. Employers other than physicians and medical facilities are not required to report.

I would like to request a presentation providing more information on COVID-19 to my organization. Who should I contact?


I am planning a large event. Do you have any information I can post around my venue and any guidance for the situation with the Coronavirus?
On 3/16/20, President Trump issued new guidance calling for people to avoid gatherings of more than ten people and Governor Northam encourages those in Virginia to follow this guidance.
Event planners are encouraged to confer with local government and public health leadership about any planned events. 

I plan to attend a very large event in X. Is X planning on shutting any events down due to Coronavirus?
In response to the Governor’s emergency declaration and CDC recommendations, many events are canceled and many venues are temporarily closed. Please contact the event organizers to determine whether the event is cancelled.

Are there any cases of COVID-19 in the part of Virginia where I am planning my event?
Would you like for me to look that information up for you and walk you through it?
I would like to request a presentation providing more information on COVID-19 to my organization. Who should I contact?

Is it okay for my child to go to school?
Governor Ralph Northam ordered all K-12 schools in Virginia to close for a minimum of two weeks in response to the continued spread of novel coronavirus, or COVID-19. Schools will close from Monday, March 16, through Friday, March 27, at a minimum.

Localities will maintain authority over specific staffing decisions to ensure students maintain continuity of services or learning, while protecting the public health of teachers and staff.
School closures are one form of social distancing. Children and families are also encouraged to practice social distancing in their daily lives while schools are closed. Social distancing means remaining out of:
Public places where close contact with others may occur (such as shopping centers, movie theaters, stadiums).Workplaces (unless the person works in an office space that allows distancing from others).

A classmate in my child’s school arrived from X recently. Should he/she beallowed to go to school?
Students or teachers who traveled should follow the same guidance as any other traveler. 

I am / my child is healthy, but recently traveled. The school wants a letter saying that it is ok for me / my child to attend school. Can VDH provide me with a letter?
If you have any signs of illness, even very mild illness, such as a dry cough or slight fever, it is very important that you stay home and rest. Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others. If you need a letter for work / school, please consult with your healthcare provider.

I would like to request a presentation providing more information on COVID-19 to my organization. Who should I contact?


My loved one is in a nursing home/long-term care facility. How can I prevent them from getting COVID-19?
The U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) announced critical new measures designed to keep America’s nursing home residents safe from the virus that causes COVID-19. The measures direct nursing homes to significantly restrict visitors and nonessential personnel, as well as restrict communal activities inside nursing homes. The new measures are CMS’s latest action to protect America’s seniors, who are at highest risk for complications from COVID-19. While visitor restrictions may be difficult for residents and families, it is an important temporary measure for their protection. If your loved one is sick, especially with respiratory symptoms, inform the healthcare provider at the nursing home for further guidance.
Additionally: If you are visiting your loved one in a nursing home, make sure you are not sick. If you are sick, postpone your visit until you can see your healthcare provider and get the proper management.
If you are not sick and visiting your relative in a nursing home, follow the proper hand hygiene and respiratory hygiene practices during your visit. Observe posted signs for any special instructions.
If your loved one is sick, especially with respiratory symptoms, inform the healthcare provider at the nursing home for further guidance.
Visitors should not visit more than one resident. Visits should be in the resident’s room, rather than in common areas.

Are patients in long-term care facilities at risk for serious illness from COVID-19?
Based upon available data, older adults and those with chronic medical conditions or weakened immune systems are at greater risk for severe illness from COVID-19.

What should a long-term care facility do if they notice a cluster of respiratory illness among residents?
Immediately contact your local public health department for assistance and further guidance. All suspected clusters or outbreaks of any illness should be immediately reported to the local health department by the most rapid means available.

Will my loved one have to go to the hospital if they get COVID-19?
Depending on the severity of the illness and capabilities at the facility, your loved one may be able to stay in their current location to receive supportive care. More serious illness may require admission to the local hospital for treatment.

I would like to request a presentation providing more information on COVID-19 to my organization. Who should I contact?


How can my community prevent COVID-19 spread?
Each member of the community plays an important role in preventing the community spread of COVID-19 by following these precautions: Avoid contact with sick people.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands. Clean your hands often by washing them with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%–95% alcohol. Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty. It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose. If you are sick, stay home and rest, even if illness is mild.

Additionally, everyone should practice social distancing as much as possible in their daily live. See additional information on social distancing below.
It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

What is community spread?
Community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.

What is social distancing?
Social distancing means remaining out of: Public places where close contact with others may occur (such as shopping centers, movie theaters, stadiums). Workplaces (unless the person works in an office space that allows distancing from others). Schools and other classroom settings.These restrictions are to be in effect for 14 days from the time the person was possibly exposed.

It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

What can I do if COVID-19 is spreading in my community?
If COVID-19 is spreading in your community, you should take the following steps: Stay informed about local COVID-19 activity and be aware of school, work, and local closures. Put distance between yourself and others. Avoid contact with people who
are sick. Stay in touch with others by phone or email. Take care of the emotional health of your household members. Do not take public transportation such as buses, trains, taxis, or ride- shares, if possible.Discourage children and teens from gathering in public places while school is dismissed or after school to help slow the spread of COVID-19 in the community.Set a good example for children and teens by limiting your contact with others and avoiding public spaces, public activities, and group gatherings.

If there are any warnings/plans that have been created that affect our region, would you please share them with us?
VDH is using its website at http://www.vdh.virginia.gov/coronavirus/ to provide the most accurate information about cases and the region of the state where they are located. Would you like for me to look up that information and walk you through it? VDH has no warnings or plans for any regions at this time. VDH also hosts a biweekly tele-press conference to keep the media up to date with accurate information.

Should I be worried about people touching items at grocery stores?
Coronaviruses appear to spread from person-to-person through respiratory droplets. Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated with food. Before preparing or eating food it is important to always wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds for general food safety. Throughout the day wash your hands after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing, or going to the bathroom.
It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.
In general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from food products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient, refrigerated, or frozen temperatures.

Can the virus that causes COVID-19 be spread through food, including refrigerated or frozen food?
Coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread from person-to-person through respiratory droplets. Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated with food. Before preparing or eating food it is important to always wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds for general food safety. Throughout the day wash your hands after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing, or going to the bathroom.
It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.
In general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from food products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient, refrigerated, or frozen temperatures.

I’m worried because supplies of hand sanitizer are low / over-priced. How can I protect myself?
The best way to protect yourself is to wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds. Do this often throughout the day, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.
Additionally: Avoid close contact with people who are sick. Put distance (>6 feet) between yourself and other people if COVID-19 is spreading in your community. This is
especially important for people who are at higher risk of getting very sick.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.

Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning product. It is very important that people with even mild signs of illness (fever, cough, shortness of breath) stay home to prevent spreading illness to others! Even those with mild illness could pass the infection to others.

How can people help stop stigma associated with COVID-19?
People can fight stigma and help, not hurt, others by providing social support. Counter stigma by learning and sharing facts. Communicating the facts that viruses do not target specific racial or ethnic groups and explaining how COVID-19 actually spreads can help stop stigma.

I am healthy, but recently traveled. My employer wants a letter saying that it is ok for me to go to work. Can VDH provide me with a letter?
If you have any signs of illness, even very mild illness, such as a dry cough or slight fever, it is very important that you stay home and rest. If you need a letter for work / school, please consult with your healthcare provider.

I would like to request a presentation providing more information on COVID-19 to my organization. Who should I contact?

Where can I get more information about protecting myself and my community?