	Is Going for a Walk Essential?	Is Going for a Walk Essential?		So you made the decision to follow guidance and voluntarily self-quarantine or minimize your movements for the next 14 days.	First, thank you for making that choice to help protect our most vulnerable neighbors, family and friends.  We fully recognize the inconvenience this will pose, and the impact it may have on you financially.  We understand it is a sacrifice for the greater good, and we truly appreciate you for doing the right thing for our community as a whole.	So, now you need to figure out what your days look like in this quarantined lifestyle.  You have probably seen lots of articles and information around what's essential and what's not.	Can you still run to the grocery store if you run out of toilet paper or milk?	Is it okay to take a walk around the block to get some fresh air or just quiet time away from the kids, partners or other housemates?	What about your dog?  Is it okay to take Fido to the nearby dog park for some exercise and relief?	The short answer is, yes.  You can still do all of those things.  Your physical health and well-being are critical to our recovery from the impact of COVID-19.	The long answer goes something like this: If you need to run to the grocery store, be mindful of those around you.  If you observe congestion in an aisle, keep moving and wait for it to break apart.  Pay attention to where you are in the checkout line and observe social distancing guidelines of staying 6 feet apart.  Try to make a list and get what you may need to get you through the length of your voluntary quarantine.  Wash your hands before and after any trips and grab a little bit of hand sanitizer for yourself (and to share with your cashier).!	Please, take that walk around the block and get fresh air.  Let Fido run around the dog park.  But just like at the grocery store, be mindful of your surroundings.  Maintain that social distance of 6 feet to protect yourself and others from potential exposures.  If you are approaching others during your walk, cross the street or simply stop and move an appropriate distance away to ensure safe distance when you pass one another.	Your health and well-being is essential, and undertaking activities to ensure that you and your loved ones can maintain good health is essential.  Just use common sense when you do.