	Sanitize, sanitize, sanitize!	Sanitize, sanitize, sanitize!		Oklahomans are doing a great job implementing social distancing recommendations and observing guidance from state and local authorities, and while that means we are staying home and limiting our exposure to others, we still have essential needs that must be met.  To meet those needs, Oklahomans still need to go to the grocery store to pick up bread and milk and eggs.  We still have to put gas in the car.  For others, delivery services have been critical --bringing food, toilet paper, and other items straight to our doors.	But wait.  All those items that are coming into our homes, have been touched by multiple hands, traveled by plane, truck and car to reach you.  But what can you do about that?  You have to have these items, so how will you maintain your individual and household needs and also protect yourself from potential spread of COVID-19.  Should we be worried?	Good news folks --the risk of COVID-19 spreading through your delivered groceries and bars of soap are pretty low.  In fact, the CDC doesn't recommend anything special for how you handle packages received in the mail, or that you pick up at the grocery store.  The CDC does recommend you continue to observe social distance practices and remain vigilant in your personal hygiene.  There are a few extra precautionary measures you can take to reduce risk even more when you are bringing goods into your home.	If you are having food delivered, avoid direct contact with the food courier by leaving payment (if needed) outside the door and instructions on where to leave your food package.	When returning from a trip to the grocery store, gas station or food pick up, be sure to immediately wash your hands and any re-useable bags you may shop with.	Don't leave empty take out boxes on your counters or other hard surfaces, make sure they land in your sink or your trash bin.	Continue to regularly disinfect high touch areas in your home --doorknobs, faucet handles and light switches are examples.	As long as we all keep doing our part, we can continue to slow the spread and flatten the curve here in Oklahoma.  Let's do this!