	Now that COVID-19 is in our community, it's human nature to want to have as much information as we possibly can, as fast as we can.  I don't know about you, but sometimes this age of instant information overwhelms me.  All I really want to know is what I can do to keep myself, and the people I love, healthy.	At this point, we need to focus on slowing the spread.  Here are a few basic rules to help you do your part:	Rule 1: Wash Your Hands.  The Right Way.  A lot.  Please.  It seems so simple but if we all wash our hands at least half as often as we check our smartphones (maybe even a quarter of the time) we can help prevent the spread of germs on common surfaces.  This means less germs catching a ride from person to person.  If you can't wash your hands more frequently, hand sanitizer or rubbing alcohol (sanitizer's main ingredient) will do the trick.	Rule 2: Keep Your Hands to Yourself.  And Off Your Face.  A study published in the American Journal of Infection (2015) found that people touch their face on average more than 20 times an hour, and almost half of the time this involves eyes, nose or mouth.  Viruses live and spread on the things we touch on a regular basis.  Let's just play this out.  You open the door to the gas station, pay the cashier for your gas, and then head back out the door.  A few minutes later your contact is stuck so you rub your eye.  As you were drinking your water, a little spilled and you immediately brought your hand to your mouth.  That same hand that touched the door to the gas station and handed a bill to the cashier.  Each time you move your hand to your face, you are increasing the ways any virus can enter your body.	Rule 3: Sanitize Your Life.  Now, we don't mean you need to go crazy here walking around with sanitizer spray, and dousing everything you own (and everyone you meet) but we do want to encourage you to take the extra time to sanitize those dirty surfaces you, and the people you love on a regular basis.  Think of it like an extended spring cleaning exercise, and enjoy how fresh and clean your surroundings will smell.  Surfaces in your home that are high traffic areas for your hands should be high priority for you.  Stores fresh out of sanitizer spray?  No problem, you can make your own with 2/3 cup of rubbing alcohol and 1/3 cup of aloe vera gel.  If you're feeling fancy, you can even add a few drops of your favorite essential oil.