	We Just Got Back From Spring Break . Now What?	We Just Got Back From Spring Break . Now What?		We know that some of our fellow Oklahomans opted to go on previously planned and scheduled spring break trips.  For those of you who did travel, it's likely you have been following the news and know that you may be returning to different guidance for navigating the COVID-19 pandemic.	We'd like to fill you in on the latest recommendations for returning from your spring break trip.	If your travel took you out of the country, or in a region with widespread ongoing transmission of COVID-19, you may be screened when you arrive in the U.S In this case, after you arrive home, take the following steps to protect yourself and others:	Stay at home.  Do not go to work, school, or leave your house for 14 days.  Discuss your work situation with your employer.	Monitor your health.  Take your temperature with a thermometer two times a day and monitor for fever (temperature of 100.4°F/38°C or higher).  Also watch for cough or trouble breathing.	Practice social distancing within the home.  Avoid contact with other people for the 14 days.  Maintain distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from family members and others in the home when possible.	Watch for symptoms of COVID-19 and contact your healthcare professional if you begin to exhibit any of the common symptoms including fever, cough or trouble breathing.  Your provider can help to determine the best course of action for you --but be prepared to hear the same type of advice you would receive for the flu or cold --focus on plenty of rest, fluids and over the counter remedies that work best for you.  Your provider will also give you guidance on whether you should go to the nearest emergency room for care.	Finally, use common sense.  If you're feeling under the weather at all --even if you're 99% sure it's just your seasonal allergies --don't take the chance of exposing someone else, slow the spread and stay put for 14 days.