	Who is at Higher Risk?	Early information out of China, where COVID-19 first started, shows that some people are at higher risk of getting very sick from this illness.  This includes:						If a COVID-19 outbreak happens in your community, it could last for a long time.  (An outbreak is when a large number of people suddenly get sick).  Depending on how severe the outbreak is, public health officials may recommend community actions to reduce people's risk of being exposed to COVID-19.  These actions can slow the spread and reduce the impact of disease.	If you are at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19 because of your age or because you have a serious long-term health problem, it is extra important for you to take actions to reduce your risk of getting sick with the disease.			The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person.	Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).	Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.	These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.	Can someone spread the virus without being sick?	People are thought to be most contagious when they are most symptomatic (the sickest).	Some spread might be possible before people show symptoms; there have been reports of this occurring with this new coronavirus, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.		It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.		How easily a virus spreads from person-to-person can vary.  Some viruses are highly contagious (spread easily), like measles, while other viruses do not spread as easily.  Another factor is whether the spread is sustained, spreading continually without stopping.	The virus that causes COVID-19 seems to be spreading easily and sustainably in the community ("community spread") in some affected geographic areas.		)If you think you have been exposed to someone with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19, follow the steps below to monitor your health andavoid spreading the disease to others if you get sick.	What is coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)?	COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by a new virus called SARS-CoV-2.  The most common symptoms of the disease are fever, cough, and shortness of breath.  Most people with COVID-19 will have mild disease but some people will get sicker and may need to be hospitalized.	How do I know if I was exposed?	You generally need to be in close contact with a sick person to get infected.  Close contact includes:				Being in direct contact with secretions from a sick person with COVID-19 (e.g, being coughed on, kissing, sharing utensils, etc.) 	If you have not been in close contact with a sick person with COVID-19, you are at low risk for infection.  You can continue to go to work and school, but should monitor your health for 14 dayssince the contactand stay away from others if you get sick.	What should I do if I was in close contact with someone with COVID-19 while they were ill butI am not sick?	You should monitor your health for fever, cough and shortness of breath during the 14 days after the last day you were in close contact with the sick person with COVID-19.  You should not go to work or school, and should avoid public places for 14 days.	What should I do if I was in close contact with someone with COVID-19 and get sick?	If you get sick with fever, cough or shortness of breath (even if your symptoms are very mild), you likely have COVID-19.  You should isolate yourself at home and away from other people.  If you have any of the following conditions that may increase your risk for a serious infection-- age 60 years or older, are pregnant, orhave medical conditions-- contact your physician's office and tell them that you were exposed to someone with COVID-19.  They may want to monitor your health more closely or test you for COVID-19.	If you do not have a high-risk condition but want medical advice, call your healthcare provider and tell them you were exposed to someone with COVID-19.  Your healthcare provider can help you decide if you need to be evaluated in personor tested.  There are currently no medications to treat COVID-19.  If you have amedical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you may have been exposed to COVID-19.  If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive or immediately after they arrive.		There is currently no vaccine to prevent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).	The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to this virus.	The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person.	Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).	Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.	These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.		Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds especially after you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.	If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.  Cover all surfaces of your hands and rub them together until they feel dry.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.			Put distance between yourself and other people if COVID-19 is spreading in your community.  This is especially important for people who are at higher risk of getting very sick.		There is not currently information from published scientific reports about susceptibility of pregnant women to COVID-19.  Pregnant women experience immunologic and physiologic changes which might make them more susceptible to viral respiratory infections, including COVID-19.	There is no evidence that children are more susceptible to COVID-19.  In fact, most confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported from China have occurred in adults.  Infections in children have been reported, including in very young children.  There is an ongoing investigation to determine more about this outbreak.  This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available.				Reported illnesses have ranged from mild symptoms to severe illness and death for confirmed COVID-19 cases.