	You Want Me to Stay Home for How Long?	You Want Me to Stay Home for How Long?		As businesses, places of worship and schools continue to close, the reality of our new world is settling in, and we're not sure entirely what to think of it.  For many of us --this presents a minor inconvenience.  Perhaps we have paid sick leave we can access, or a job that allows for remote work.  However, for our friends, neighbors and family who work hourly jobs, asking them to self-quarantine is likely causing a lot of anxiety.  How will I pay my bills?  How will we cover our mortgage or rent?  What happens when I miss my first paycheck?	We want to make sure you are taking the steps, and have access to resources to keep your spiritual, emotional and physical health up during these times.  Here are some tips and resources to help you through it.	Have a routine for you and other members of your household.  You don't have to get all dressed up like you're leaving the house, but set alarms, have meals at a certain time and "schedule" the day as much as you can.	Keep up with your social engagements --virtually.  Do you have coffee every Wednesday morning with the moms from the bus stop?  Is there a regular happy hour you and your co-workers go to?  Great!  Pour your beverage of choice and set up a video chat with your service of choice.	Find ways to keep exercising.  Many gyms are now offering streaming workout classes to help people stay busy and active during times of self-quarantine.  Check out a list of options here.	Ask for help.  If you're feeling like it's all too much, that's ok.  We understand that self-quarantine is a disruption in all of our lives, and depending on each of our unique situations, the stress, concern and anxiety may be different.  If you need someone to talk to, call the disaster distress helpline at 1-800-985-5990 and talk to someone about how your feeling, and what you need.	Our community is so resilient.  We have been through devastating natural disasters and acts of domestic terrorism.  If you're new to our state --know that while COVID-19 may be new to us, we are not new to responding and helping our fellow Oklahomans.