	Our COVID-19 Data and Surveillance Dashboard provides a map of specimen collection sites.  These facilities have reported to the Alabama Department of Public Health (ADPH) that they are collecting specimens for COVID-19.  This map does not reflect all collection sites in Alabama.  Call the testing site for additional information before visiting or call the Alabama COVID-19 24/7 Hotline at 1-888-264-2256 for testing sites and hours of operation near you.  Note: There is no medical advice provided at this telephone number.	For general COVID-19 questions, call 1-800-270-7268 or email.  Telephone calls are answered from 7 a.m to 9 p.m daily.  Also visit our FAQ page.	After persons are tested for COVID-19, they should go home to self-isolate and remain there until their results are reported to them by their healthcare provider.  They are not to go anywhere other than home.  If a person is being tested for COVID-19 and hospitalized, they will be in isolation prescribed by the facility Infection Control Office.  The decision to discontinue home isolation precautions should be made on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with healthcare providers and ADPH.	If you have a laboratory-confirmed case of COVID-19 disease (positive test result), you and your household will be quarantined and should monitor your health closely.	Here are some important resources for those with COVID-19 regarding their health:	Here are additional resources for those exposed to a person with COVID-19:	As commercial labs have continued to increase their capacity for testing for the virus causing COVID-19 disease, the ADPH Bureau of Clinical Laboratories (BCL) has refocused its testing efforts.  Testing is focus toward persons at highest risk for COVID-19 disease, and potential adverse outcomes or concerns regarding infection control (healthcare or long-term care workers) which is consistent with federal guidelines.  If a patient does not meet ADPH's criteria and their physician wishes for them to be tested, the patient's specimen should be tested by a commercial laboratory.	ADPH BCL asks that specimens submitted to the State Lab follow the criteria below:	Comorbidities are defined as chronic lung disease, diabetes, heart disease, chronic kidney disease, immunocompromised, neurologic disorders, pregnancy.	If testing will be conducted at ADPH BCL, the healthcare provider collects a nasopharyngeal (swab from the nose) specimen, using the same kind of swab used for flu tests.  The specimen is then put in a viral transport medium and shipped to the State Laboratory for testing using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 Polymerase Chain Assay.  The average time from receipt of the specimen at the BCL to test and report results is between 24 to 72 hours.  Test results are sent only to the healthcare provider who ordered the test.  Do not call ADPH for test results.	Information regarding materials to collect the specimen, how to package the specimen properly, and how to ship the specimen to the BCL is available at COVID-19 Resources for Healthcare Providers (see Specimen Collection and Shipping Guidance and Specimen Packaging Instructions).	If you have been notified that you were exposed to someone with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19, follow the steps below to monitor your health and avoid spreading the disease to others if you get sick.	What is coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)?	COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by a new virus called SARS-CoV-2.  The most common symptoms of the disease are fever, cough, and shortness of breath.  Most people with COVID-19 will have mild disease but some people will get sicker and may need to be hospitalized.	How do I know if I was exposed?	You generally need to be in close contact with a sick person to get infected.	Close contact includes living in the same household as a sick person with COVID-19, caring for a sick person with COVID-19, being within 6 feet of a sick person with COVID-19 for about 15 minutes, being in direct contact with secretions from a sick person with COVID-19 (e.g, being coughed on, kissing, sharing utensils, etc.) 	What should I do if I was in close contact (defined as being within 6 feet for at least 15 minutes) with someone with confirmed COVID-19 while they were ill but I am not sick?	The Alabama Department of Public Health (ADPH) is advising close contacts of confirmed cases to self-isolate.You should monitor your health for fever, cough and shortness of breath during the 14 days after the last day you were in close contact with the sick person with COVID-19.  You should not go to work or school, and should avoid public places for 14 days.  If you have not been in close contact with a sick person with COVID-19 (defined as being within 6 feet for at least 15 minutes), you are at low risk for infection.  You can continue to go to work and school, but should monitor your health for 14 days and stay away from others if you get sick.	What should I do if I am a close contact to someone with COVID-19 and get sick?	If you get sick with fever, cough or shortness of breath (even if your symptoms are very mild), you likely have COVID-19.  You should isolate yourself at home and away from other people.  If you have any of the following conditions that may increase your risk for a serious infection-- age 60 years or older, are pregnant, or have medical conditions-- contact your physician's office and tell them that you were exposed to someone with COVID-19.  They may want to monitor your health more closely or test you for COVID-19.	If you do not have a high-risk condition but want medical advice, call your healthcare provider and tell them you were exposed to someone with COVID-19.  Your healthcare provider can help you decide if you need to be evaluated in person.  There are currently no medications to treat COVID-19.  If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you may have been exposed to COVID-19.  If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive or immediately after they arrive.	If I do get sick, when can I stop in-home self-Isolation?	Persons that were directed to care for themselves at home may discontinue home isolation under the following conditions, at least 7 days have passed since symptoms first appeared; and at least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since fever has resolved (without using acetaminophen or Tylenol(r), which may reduce fever) and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g, cough, shortness of breath).	What if I have an immune-compromising condition (e.g, medical treatment with immunosuppressive drugs, bone marrow or solid organ transplant recipient, inherited immunodeficiency, poorly controlled HIV), when can I stop in-home self-isolation?	Immunocompromised persons may continue spread the COVID-19 after they recover from the disease.Therefore, ADPH and CDC recommend the following guidelines for discontinuing in-home isolation for these persons.