	WHAT IS COVID-19?	Covid-19 is a viral illness caused by the 2019 Novel Coronavirus that effects the lungs and upper respiratory system.	It is not the cold or flu.  It is more contagious and severe.	It is spread through close contact with another person, including through airborne droplets caused by coughing and sneezing and by touching contaminated surfaces.	Covid-19 can cause:	In some cases, it can be fatal, especially for those: with a suppressed immune system.	It can take from 1-14 days for a person to show any symptoms.	HOW DO I PROTECT MYSELF AND OTHERS?	Avoid exposure: Stay away from people who have Covid-19, and large crowds of people.	When in public, stay at least 6 feet away from other people.	Do not dine-in at restaurants.	Order take-out, delivery, drivethrough, or curbside service.	Do not attend events with 10 or more people.	Do not travel.	Do not touch your face with unwashed hands Especially avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.	Wash your hands often: Use soap and water.  Lather for at least 20 seconds before rinsing.	Singing "Happy Birthday" twice takes about 20 seconds.	If there is no soap and water near, use at least a 60% alcohol-based hand sanitizer, and rub your hands together until completely dry.	Wash your hands after you have been in public, or after touching high use objects like doorknobs, counters, tables, handrails, and cell phones.	Disinfect your home: Disinfect high use objects like doorknobs, counters, tables, handrails and cell phones.	Use: Diluted bleach solution (1/3 cup bleach per gallon of water, or 4 teaspoons per quart of water).  Do not mix bleach with ammonia, any household cleaner, or any acidic solution (such as vinegar).	Alcohol solutions with 70% alcohol.	Or the following products:	Disinfect your cell phone often using a lint free cloth with 70% rubbing alcohol.  Follow the manufacturer's guide for cleaning instructions.	Do not use bleach on your phone.	WHAT IF I MIGHT HAVE COVID-19?	 Don't Panic!	The vast majority of people recover within 14 days.	Stay Home: Only leave your home for medical care.	Call your medical provider before visiting and inform them you may have Covid-19.	Stay home for 14 days.	Separate from other members of your household Stay in a specific "sick room" Use a separate bathroom, if possible Stop Your Spread:	Cover your cough with a tissue or the bend of your elbow Throw away any tissue you've coughed or sneezed into and wash your hands after.	Wear a facemask only when you are ill and leaving home to visit your medical provider If you cannot buy a facemask, you can limit the droplets you spread by using a clean dishtowel, cotton blend tshirt, or if short of breath 100% cotton t-shirt.	If the facemask makes it hard to breath stop use immediately.	There is currently no vaccine, treatment, or cure.	Covid-19 is viral, antibiotics will not work to treat the illness.	Over the counter medications can provide relief from symptoms of Covid-19; however, consult with a medical professional before taking any.	WHY ARE THINGS SO DIFFERENT RIGHT NOW?	The World Health Organization has declared Covid-19 a pandemic.	A pandemic is a disease that is spread on a world-wide level.	Pandemics threaten to overload healthcare systems, which creates a greater number of people needing treatment than our ability to provide it.	Flattening the curve: The goal to is to slow the spread of Covid19 so healthcare systems aren't overloaded.	To achieve this travel has been limited, schools have closed or moved online, people are working from home, and restaurants are no-longer dine-in.  These changes will last until the threat of a pandemic has passed.	It is normal to have questions and to be worried.