	In order to better focus public health resources on the changing needs of California communities, beginning on March 18, the state is no longer collecting information about California travelers returning from countries that have confirmed COVID-19 outbreaks.  Community transmission of COVID-19 has been identified in California since late February, and since early March, most of the confirmed cases in the state were not related to travel outside of the United States.	Twenty-two public health labs in California are testing samples for COVID-19.  This means California public health officials will get test results sooner, so that patients will get the best care.	How can people protect themselves?	There is currently no vaccine to prevent COVID-19.  The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to this virus.  The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).  This occurs through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.  These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.  Older adults and people who have severe underlying chronic medical conditions like heart or lung disease or diabetes seem to be at higher risk for developing more serious complications from COVID-19 illness.  Every person has a role to play.	Washing hands with soap and water.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces daily.  If surfaces are dirty, clean them using detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.	Avoiding touching eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue or your elbow.	Avoiding close contact with people who are sick.	Staying away from work, school or other people if you become sick with respiratory symptoms like fever and cough.	If you smoke or vape, consider quitting.  Smokers who already have lung disease or reduced lung capacity could be at increased risk of serious illness.	Following guidance from public health officials.	Please consult with your health care provider about additional steps you may be able to take to protect yourself.	Who is at Higher Risk for Serious Illness from COVID-19?	Early information out of China, where COVID-19 first started, shows that some people are at higher risk of getting very sick from this illness.	In addition, smokers who already have lung disease or reduced lung capacity could be at increased risk of serious illness.	If you are at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19 because of your age or health condition, it is important for you to take actions to reduce your risk of getting sick with the disease, including:	Isolate at home and practice social distancing.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing, or having been in a public place.	Avoiding touching eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid close contact with people who are sick, and stay away from large gatherings and crowds.	Consider ways of getting food brought to your house through family, social, or commercial networks.	It is also important that you listen to public health officials who may recommend community actions to reduce potential exposure to COVID-19, especially if COVID-19 is spreading in your community.	For more information visit the CDC's website.	What if I'm sick?	What are the symptoms of COVID-19?	Typically, human coronaviruses cause mild-to-moderate respiratory illness.  Symptoms are very similar to the flu, including:	COVID-19 can cause more severe respiratory illness.	What if I have symptoms?	Patient: If a person develops symptoms of COVID-19, including fever, cough or shortness of breath, and has reason to believe they may have been exposed, they should call their health care provider before seeking care.  Contacting them in advance will make sure that people can get the care they need without putting others at risk.  Please be sure to tell your health care provider about your travel history.  You can also take the following precautionary measures: avoid contact with sick individuals, wash hands often with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds.	Health Care Provider: Patients who may have infection with this novel coronavirus should wear a surgical mask and be placed in an airborne infection isolation room.  If an airborne infection isolation room is not available, the patient should be placed in a private room with the door closed.  Health care providers should use standard, contact and airborne precautions and use eye protection.  Please see "Update and Interim Guidance on Outbreak of 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in Wuhan, China" for more information about infection control.  The Public Health Department will issue All Facility Letters to regulated healthcare facilities within California with updated information and guidance; these can be found on the AFL webpage.	California has partnered with Verily's Project Baseline to launch a community COVID-19 testing program to expand screening and testing for high-risk individuals in certain areas of the state.  High-risk individuals located in Santa Clara or San Mateo counties, or within 50 miles of the cities of Riverside or Sacramento, can complete the screener to see if they qualify for testing through this program.  Potential participants need internet access and a Google account.	What should you do if you think you're sick?	Call ahead: If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 and may have had contact with a person with COVID-19, or recently traveled to countries with apparent community spread, call your health care provider before seeking medical care so that appropriate precautions can be taken.	California has partnered with Verily's Project Baseline to launch a community COVID-19 testing program to expand screening and testing for high-risk individuals in certain areas of the state.  High-risk individuals located in Santa Clara or San Mateo counties, or within 50 miles of the cities of Riverside or Sacramento, can complete the screener to see if they qualify for testing through this program.  Potential participants need internet access and a Google account.	Is California able to test for COVID-19?	Twenty-two public health labs in California are testing samples for COVID-19.  These labs include the California Department of Public Health's Laboratory in Richmond, Alameda, Contra Costa, Humboldt, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Monterey, Napa-Solano-Yolo-Marin (located in Solano), Orange, Riverside, Sacramento, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Francisco, San Joaquin, San Luis Obispo, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Shasta, Sonoma, Tulare and Ventura County public health laboratoriesThe Richmond Laboratory will provide diagnostic testing within a 48-hour turnaround time.  More public health labs will soon be able to test samples for COVID-19.  This means California public health officials will get test results sooner, so that patients will get the best care.	If a person develops symptoms of COVID-19 including fever, cough or shortness of breath, and has reason to believe they may have been exposed, they should call their health care provider before seeking care.	California has partnered with Verily's Project Baseline to launch a community COVID-19 testing program to expand screening and testing for high-risk individuals in certain areas of the state.  High-risk individuals located in Santa Clara or San Mateo counties, or within 50 miles of the cities of Riverside or Sacramento, can complete the screener to see if they qualify for testing through this program.  Potential participants need internet access and a Google account.	What is the treatment for COVID-19?	From the international data we have, of those who have tested positive for COVID-19, approximately 80 percent do not exhibit symptoms that would require hospitalization.  For patients who are more severely ill, hospitals can provide supportive care.  We are continuing to learn more about this novel coronavirus and treatment may change over time.	What if I don't have health insurance and I need screening or treatment for COVID-19?	Check with your local community health center or hospital to see if fees for testing can be waived.	How is it decided whether a person with a confirmed case of COVID-19 can self-isolate at home or must be confined to a hospital or elsewhere?	Local health departments are working in partnership with the California Department of Public Health and the CDC, and making determinations on whether a person ill with COVID-19 requires hospitalization or if home isolation is appropriate.  That decision may be based on multiple factors including severity of illness, need for testing, and appropriateness of home for isolation purposes.	What is Social Distancing?	Social distancing is a practice recommended by public health officials to stop or slow down the spread of contagious diseases.  It requires the creation of physical space between individuals who may spread certain infectious diseases.  The key is to minimize the number of gatherings as much as possible and to achieve space between individuals when events or activities cannot be modified, postponed, or canceled.  Achieving space between individuals of approximately six feet is advisable.  Additionally, there is a particular focus on creating space between individuals who have come together on a one-time or rare basis and who have very different travel patterns such as those coming from multiple countries, states or counties.	For more information, see the Gathering Guidance.	To protect public health and slow the rate of transmission of COVID-19, gatherings as described below should be postponed or canceled across the state of California until further guidance is issued by the California Department of Public Health.	The California Department of Public Health finds the following:	All gatherings should be postponed or canceled.	This includes gatherings such as concerts, conferences, and professional, college, and school sporting events.	Gyms, health clubs, and theaters should be closed.	A "gathering" is any event or convening that brings together people in a single room or single space at the same time, such as an auditorium, stadium, arena, large conference room, meeting hall, cafeteria, or any other indoor or outdoor space.	This applies to all non-essential professional, social, and community gatherings regardless of their sponsor.  Gatherings that do not meet the aforementioned criteria should only be conducted when they are essential-- that is, if the activity is essential and could not be postponed or achieved without gathering, meaning that some other means of communication could not be used to conduct the essential function.	What will this achieve?	The timely implementation of aggressive strategies that create social distance and those that reduce close contact of people not regularly together, including limiting gatherings, has proven effective in prior pandemics at delaying rates of transmission and reducing illness and death.	By decreasing the prevalence of disease across California we will:	Reduce the number of Californians who contract COVID-19 before an effective treatment or vaccine is available.	Protect those most likely to experience severe symptoms, such as older Californians and those with underlying chronic conditions.	Preserve and protect our health care delivery system, including our health care workforce, so they can care for the least healthy individuals in the community for any medical condition, not just COVID-19.	Minimize the social and economic impacts of COVID-19 over the long run.	How long will these limitations apply?	This guidance will remain in place until further guidance is released by the California Department of Public Health.  As with all guidance that relates to COVID-19 response, authorities will revisit this guidance on a regular basis to evaluate the continued public health need for it and to evaluate if any elements need to be changed.  To stay informed, continue to monitor the California Department of Public Health's web page on COVID-19 guidance.	Examples of Essential Events this Does Not Apply To The goal of this recommendation is to prevent people physically coming together unnecessarily, where people who have the infection can easily spread it to others.  This guidance does not apply to activities such as attendance at regular school classes, work, or essential services.	Please see the guidance for schools document for additional information.	Certain activities are essential to the functioning of our state and must continue.  Hence, this does not apply to essential public transportation, airport travel, shopping at a store, mall, or farmers' market, or charitable food pantries and distributions.  Other specific guidance can be found on the CDPH website to help people take actions that can protect them in those settings.	This does not apply to congregate living situations, including dormitories and homeless encampments.  For more information on what can be done to protect homeless individuals, please see the Guidance for Homeless Assistance Providers on Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19).	Should public events be cancelled?	To protect public health and slow the rate of transmission of COVID-19, the California Department of Public Health has determined that all non-essential gatherings should be postponed or canceled across the state until further guidance is issued by the California Department of Public Health.  This includes gatherings such as concerts, conferences, sporting events, gyms and theaters.  Bars, night clubs, wineries, breweries and wine tasting rooms should close.  Restaurants should be closed for in-restaurant seated dining and should be open only to drive-through or other pick-up/delivery options.  Certain activities are essential to the functioning of our state and must continue.  Hence, this does not apply to essential public transportation, airport travel, shopping at a store, mall, or farmers' market, or charitable food pantries and distributions.	Is it safe to go to restaurants and bars?	California public health officials have directed bars, night clubs, breweries and wine tasting rooms to close.  Restaurants should focus on food delivery and takeout while maximizing social distancing for those who are inside their restaurant.	For more information, see the Food, Beverage and Other Services Guidance.	This guidance is based on what is currently known about the transmission and severity of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).  The California Department of Public Health (CDPH) will update this guidance as needed and as additional information becomes available.	Local environmental health and public health agencies may have additional guidance and/or requirements regarding these operations in their jurisdiction.	Background COVID-19 is a respiratory illness caused by a novel virus that has been spreading worldwide.  Community-acquired cases have now been confirmed in California.  We are gaining more understanding of COVID-19's epidemiology, clinical course, immunogenicity, and other factors as time progresses, and the situation is changing daily.	CDPH is in the process of monitoring COVID-19, conducting testing with local and federal partners, and providing guidance and resources to prevent, detect and respond to the occurrence of COVID-19 cases in California.	At this time, community transmission of COVID-19 has occurred in California.  Venues where people gather for drinking or dining should prepare for possible impacts of COVID19 and take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 as well as other infectious diseases, including influenza and gastroenteritis.	Illness Severity The complete clinical picture with regard to COVID-19 is not fully understood.  Reported illnesses have ranged from mild to severe, including illness resulting in death.  Older people and people with certain underlying health conditions like heart disease, lung disease and diabetes, for example, seem to be at greater risk of serious illness.	Context Retail Food, Beverage, and Other Related service venues bring people from multiple communities into close contact with each other and have the potential to increase COVID19 transmission.  This guidance document describes steps that retail food, beverage, and other related service venue owners and management should take for the protection of patrons to prevent further COVID-19 transmission.  This is not an exhaustive list of all food and beverage sites that should utilize social distancing, and does not relate to manufacturing or production of beer and wine.  The CDPH guidance has sanitation, personal hygiene, and social distancing as an important foundation for the prevention of COVID-19 in these venues.	The goals of these actions are: (1) to protect people attending and working at the venue and the local community from COVID-19 infection; and (2) to reduce community transmission and introductions of COVID-19 into new communities.  Below we provide guidance for bars, wineries, breweries, pubs, restaurants/cafeterias, food trucks, grocery stores, certified farmers' markets, and charitable food distribution sites.	Retail Beverage Service Venues Bars, wineries, breweries and pubs should be closed, except for venues that are currently authorized to provide off sale beer and wine to be consumed off premises are allowed.	This guidance is not intended to affect production of beer and wine.	Bars, breweries, pubs, and wineries that include meals provided by a full kitchen should follow the restaurant guidance below if they provide delivery or pick-up options.	Retail Food Service and Other Related Service Venues Restaurants/Cafeterias Restaurants should be closed for in-restaurant seated dining, and should be open only to drive-through or other pick-up/delivery options.	Remind employees of best hygiene practices including washing their hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	Increase frequency of cleaning and sanitizing per CDC Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection guidance of all hard surfaces, including tables and counter tops that are being utilized by employees and patrons during pickup/delivery options.	Food Trucks Increase frequency of cleaning of menus, cash registers, receipt trays, condiment holders, writing instruments and other non-food contact surfaces frequently touched by patrons and employees.	Ensure that social distancing of six feet per person for non-family members is maintained and make clear that family members can participate together, stand in line together, etc.	Limiting the number of people in lines.	Increase frequency of cleaning and sanitizing per CDC Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection guidance of all hard surfaces.	Remind employees of best hygiene practices including washing their hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	Grocery Stores and Charitable Food Distribution Sites The food distribution chain is critical to the public's health.	Grocery stores and charitable food distribution sites should remain fully open and operational.	As with other settings, ensure that social distancing of six feet per person for nonfamily members is maintained and make clear that family members can participate in activities together, stand in line together, etc.	Social distancing of six feet per person, particularly between individuals who have come together on a one-time or rare basis.	Limiting the number of customers at any given time as necessary to reduce outdoor/indoor crowding and lines to meet social distancing guidance.	Increase cleaning and sanitizing frequency of restroom and other high contact areas.	Train employees on best hygiene practices including washing their hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	Additional opportunities throughout the venue for persons to reduce the spread of the virus through hand washing or sanitizing stations.	Eliminate events/marketing that target individuals that the CDPH has identified as higher risk of serious illness for COVID-19.	Stores that have online ordering with outside pick-up or delivery options should encourage use of these when possible in lieu of indoor shopping.	Certified Farmers' Markets Space booths accordingly to increase social distancing among patrons in line and walking about the market.	Ensure that social distancing of six feet per person for non-family members is maintained and make clear that family members can participate in activities together, stand in line together, etc.	Limit the number of customers at any given time as necessary to reduce outdoor/indoor crowding and lines to meet social distancing guidance.	Increase cleaning and sanitizing frequency of restroom and other high contact areas.	Train employees on best hygiene practices including washing their hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	Offer additional hand washing or sanitizing stations throughout the venue.	Eliminate events/marketing that target individuals that the CDPH has identified as higher risk of serious illness for COVID-19.	Encourage activities such as pre-bagging to expedite purchasing.	Suspend sampling activities.	Increase frequency of cleaning of tables, payment devices, and other surfaces.	Eliminate non-essential/non-related services, such as bands or other entertainment.	At the end of the market, continue to utilize local food recovery systems to feed/donate extra products to populations in need.	If applicable, continue accepting EBT payment.	The CDC, FDA and CDPH are not aware of any reports at this time that suggest COVID-19 can be transmitted by food or food packaging.	Should I wear a mask?	The California Department of Public Health, along with the CDC, does not recommend that healthy people wear masks at this time.  However, masks are recommended to limit the spread of disease for people who are exhibiting respiratory symptoms.	What is the state doing to protect our health?	California has been actively and extensively planning with our local public health and health care delivery systems.	What should I do if I am unable to work after being exposed to COVID-19?	Individuals who are unable to work due to having or being exposed to COVID-19 (certified by a medical professional) can file a Disability Insurance (DI) claim.	Disability Insurance provides short-term benefit payments to eligible workers who have full or partial loss of wages due to a non-work-related illness, injury, or pregnancy.  Benefit amounts are approximately 60-70 percent of wages (depending on income) and range from $50 -$1,300 a week.	Californians who are unable to work because they are caring for an ill or quarantined family member with COVID-19 (certified by a medical professional) can file a Paid Family Leave (PFL) claim.	Paid Family Leave provides up to six weeks of benefit payments to eligibile workers who have a full or partial loss of wages because they need time off work to care for a seriously ill family member or to bond with a new child.  Benefit amounts are approximately 60-70 percent of wages (depending on income) and range from $50 $1,300 a week.	For more information related to resources for California's Employers and Workers, please visit this Labor and Workforce Development Agency webpage.	What is the difference between COVID-19 and other coronaviruses?	Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses.  There are some coronaviruses that commonly circulate in humans.  These viruses cause mild to moderate respiratory illness, although rarely they can cause severe disease.  COVID-19 is closely related to two other animal coronaviruses that have caused outbreaks in people-- the SARS coronavirus and the MERS (middle east respiratory syndrome) coronavirus.	Public: If you have questions about COVID-19 and need assistance finding information online or clarification regarding the information, a statewide hotline number is available 8 a.m --5 p.m, 7 days a week.	Media: If you are with a media outlet and have questions for the California Department of Public Health, please email.