	What is coronavirus disease 2019?	Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a respiratory disease caused by a new virus strain that can spread from person to person.  Health experts are concerned about this virus because it is new, little is known about it, and it has the potential to cause severe illness including pneumonia in some people.	How does the virus spread?	Health experts are still learning the details about how this virus is spread, but it is thought to be spread mainly from person to person.	It may be possible for the virus to be spread through touching infected surfaces or objects and then touching your own mouth, nose, or possibly eyes, but this is NOT thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	What are the symptoms and severity of illness?	Health experts are still learning about the range of the illness caused by the new virus strain.  Reported cases have ranged from patients without any symptoms to mild to severe symptoms.  Reports show older adults and people with underlying health conditions are more likely to be severely impacted by COVID-19.Symptoms can appear 2 to 14 days after exposure to the virus.	Who is at risk for coronavirus disease 2019?	Currently the risk to the general public is low.  At this time, there are several states with a small number of individual cases reported.  To minimize the spread of disease, public health officials and healthcare providers are working together to quickly identify and evaluate any suspected cases.  Travelers to and from certain areas of the world may be at an increased risk.  Viruses cannot target people from specific populations, ethnicities, or racial backgrounds.	How can I protect myself and loved ones from coronavirus disease 2019?	Cases have been reported in several U.S states, but COVID-19 has not been spreading widely in the U.S The steps you can take to prevent spread of flu and the common cold will also help prevent coronavirus.	Is there treatment for coronavirus disease 2019?	Currently there is not a vaccine or an antiviral (medicine) to protect against COVID-19.  Most people with mild illness will recover on their own by drinking plenty of fluids, resting, and taking pain and fever reducing medications to relieve symptoms.  However, people can develop pneumonia and require medical care or hospitalization.