	Am I at risk for COVID-19 from a package or products shipping from China?	There is still a lot that is unknown about the newly emerged COVID-19 and how it spreads.  Two other coronaviruses have emerged previously to cause severe illness in people (MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV).  The virus that causes COVID-19 is more genetically related to SARS-CoV than MERS-CoV, but both are betacoronaviruses with their origins in bats.  While we don't know for sure that this virus will behave the same way as SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, we can use the information gained from both of these earlier coronaviruses to guide us.  In general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient temperatures.  Coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread most often by respiratory droplets.  Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated with imported goods and there have not been any cases of COVID-19 in the United States associated with imported goods.  Information will be provided on the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) website as it becomes available.	Are infants born to mothers with COVID-19 during pregnancy at increased risk for adverse outcomes?	Based on limited case reports, adverse infant outcomes (e.g, preterm birth) have been reported among infants born to mothers positive for COVID-19 during pregnancy.  However, it is not clear that these outcomes were related to maternal infection, and at this time the risk of adverse infant outcomes is not known.  Given the limited data available related to COVID-19 during pregnancy, knowledge of adverse outcomes from other respiratory viral infections may provide some information.  For example, other respiratory viral infections during pregnancy, such as influenza, have been associated with adverse neonatal outcomes, including low birth weight and preterm birth.  Additionally, having a cold or influenza with high fever early in pregnancy may increase the risk of certain birth defects.  Infants have been born preterm and/or small for gestational age to mothers with other coronavirus infections, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, during pregnancy.	Are pregnant women more susceptible to infection, or at increased risk for severe illness, morbidity, or mortality with COVID-19, compared with the general public?	CDC does not have information from published scientific reports about susceptibility of pregnant women to COVID-19.  Pregnant women experience immunologic and physiologic changes which might make them more susceptible to viral respiratory infections, including COVID-19.  Pregnant women also might be at risk for severe illness, morbidity, or mortality compared to the general population as observed in cases of other related coronavirus infections [including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV)] and other viral respiratory infections, such as influenza, during pregnancy.	Pregnant women should engage in usual preventive actions to avoid infection like washing hands often and avoiding people who are sick.	Are pregnant women with COVID-19 at increased risk for adverse pregnancy outcomes?	CDC does not have information on adverse pregnancy outcomes in pregnant women with COVID-19.  Pregnancy loss, including miscarriage and stillbirth, has been observed in cases of infection with other related coronaviruses [SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV] during pregnancy.  High fevers during the first trimester of pregnancy can increase the risk of certain birth defects.	Can COVID-19 cause problems for a pregnancy?  If a pregnant woman has COVID-19 during pregnancy, will it hurt the baby?	We do not know at this time if COVID-19 would cause problems during pregnancy or affect the health of the baby after birth.	We do not know at this time what if any risk is posed to infants of a pregnant woman who has COVID-19.  There have been a small number of reported problems with pregnancy or delivery (e.g preterm birth) in babies born to mothers who tested positive for COVID-19 during their pregnancy.  However, it is not clear that these outcomes were related to maternal infection.	Can people who recover from COVID-19 be infected again?	The immune response to COVID-19 is not yet understood.  Patients with MERS-CoV infection are unlikely to be re-infected shortly after they recover, but it is not yet known whether similar immune protection will be observed for patients with COVID-19.	Can someone who has been quarantined for COVID-19 spread the illness to others?	Quarantine means separating a person or group of people who have been exposed to a contagious disease but have not developed illness (symptoms) from others who have not been exposed, in order to prevent the possible spread of that disease.  Quarantine is usually established for the incubation period of the communicable disease, which is the span of time during which people have developed illness after exposure.  For COVID-19, the period of quarantine is 14 days from the last date of exposure, because 14 days is the longest incubation period seen for similar coronaviruses.  Someone who has been released from COVID-19 quarantine is not considered a risk for spreading the virus to others because they have not developed illness during the incubation period.	Can the COVID-19 virus be spread through food, including refrigerated or frozen food?	Coronaviruses are generally thought to be spread from person-to-person through respiratory droplets.  Currently there is no evidence to support transmission of COVID-19 associated with food.  Before preparing or eating food it is important to always wash your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds for general food safety.  Throughout the day wash your hands after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing, or going to the bathroom.	It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	In general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from food products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient, refrigerated, or frozen temperatures.	Learn what is known about the spread of COVID-19.	Can the coronavirus infect fruits or vegetables?	No, coronaviruses are not known to infect fruits or vegetables.  Plant cells are built differently than animal cells, with the former having very tough cell walls.  Viruses that infect animals or humans are typically not adapted to infect plants.  However, the coronavirus can be present on surfaces for a few hours to several days so proper food preparation techniques are advised.	Can the coronavirus spread through sweat?	There is no evidence that the virus can be spread through sweat.  However, the virus can be transmitted in places like gyms by other means -through respiratory droplets that pass from person to person or that land on surfaces that multiple people touch, such as gym equipment.  It's therefore best to avoid gyms.  If you must go, it is important to wash hands, sanitize equipment, and practice social distancing.	Do animals or animal products imported from China pose a risk of COVID-19 transmission?	CDC does not have any evidence to suggest that animals or animal products imported from China pose a risk for spreading COVID-19 in the United States.  This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available.  The U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the U S Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the U.S Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) play distinct but complementary roles in regulating the importation of live animals and animal products into the United States.  CDC regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to human health, USDA regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to agriculture; and FWS regulates importation of endangered species and wildlife that can harm the health and welfare of humans, the interests of agriculture, horticulture, or forestry, and the welfare and survival of wildlife resources.	Do imported animals or animal products pose a risk?	CDC does not have any evidence to suggest that imported animals or animal products pose a risk for spreading COVID-19 in the United States.  This is a rapidly evolving situation and information will be updated as it becomes available.  The U.S Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the U S Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the U.S Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) play distinct but complementary roles in regulating the importation of live animals and animal products into the United States.  CDC regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to human health, USDA regulates animals and animal products that pose a threat to agriculture; and FWS regulates importation of endangered species and wildlife that can harm the health and welfare of humans, the interests of agriculture, horticulture, or forestry, and the welfare and survival of wildlife resources.	How are the coronaviruses that cause the common cold different from the COVID-19 virus?	Unlike the four strains of coronavirus behind about 20% of the cases of common cold, COVID-19 virus can cause severe illness, and even death.  This is because while coronaviruses causing the common cold infect the nose and throat, which comprise the upper respiratory tract, COVID-19 virus infects the lungs, which is the lower respiratory tract.  That can bring on pneumonia.	How can I get infected?	COVID-19 mainly spreads when a person with the virus cough or sneezes.  Small droplets from coughing or sneezing land on the skin and enter the body when one touches their face around their nose or mouth.  Breathing in these droplets can transmit the virus; however, this can be prevented by keeping your distance from a person who is sick.	Notably, the role of people infected by the virus but who exhibit no or minor symptoms is now thought by many experts to be a greater cause for the spread of COVID-19 than was previously thought.  This makes it even more important to practice social distancing.	How can people help stop stigma related to COVID-19?	People can fight stigma and help, not hurt, others by providing social support.  Counter stigma by learning and sharing facts.  Communicating the facts that viruses do not target specific racial or ethnic groups and how COVID-19 actually spreads can help stop stigma.	How do I know if I am an asymptomatic carrier?	The only definitive way to know if you have COVID-19 is by getting tested.  If you cannot get tested, you should assume you are a carrier if you have had direct contact with a confirmed COVID-19 patient and you should self-quarantine for 14 days after direct contact.	How does the coronavirus affect children?	The CDC advises that children are no more susceptible to the virus than the general population.  Children who are infected with the coronavirus usually have mild respiratory symptoms.  As this situation develops, researchers are working to better understand how children are affected.  The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) is collecting information about this topic daily.  It's important to note that even without displaying symptoms children who may be infected with the COVID-19 virus could spread it to others.  On 10 March 2020 the International Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC), UNICEF and the World Health Organization (WHO) issued guidance to help protect children and schools from transmission of the COVID-19 virus.	How many people have severe symptoms from the coronavirus?	On 6 March the World Health Organization reported that 80% of infections were mild or showed no symptoms, about 15% were severe infections, and 5% were critical infections.  Those who have severe symptoms are often older or have preexisting conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, or cardiovascular disease.  Children do not seem to catch COVID-19 as frequently as adults and often have mild flu-like symptoms.	How many people will get sick with COVID-19?	National and international organizations are working on models to estimate the number of people who will get sick, but the situation is changing rapidly.  It is possible that models will underestimate the number of sick individuals because those with mild symptoms will not seek medical attention, and researchers use different methods to attempt to account for that.	In February, scenarios from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention projected that between 160 million and 214 million people in the US could be infected over the course of the epidemic, and that as many as 200,000 to 1.7 million people could ultimately die.  And, the calculations based on the CDC's scenarios suggested, 2.4 million to 21 million people in the US could require hospitalization, which would overburden our medical system.	However, the CDC's projected numbers did not account for steps that are being taken to slow COVID-19 spread, which is why it is critical that everyone begin intensive social distancing immediately -as much as possible, limit contact with people outside your family.	If someone has a cold or the flu, can he/she still become infected with COVID-19?	Yes, you can be infected with multiple viruses at once, this is called co-infection.  It is currently unknown how common co-infection is with COVID-19.  COVID-19 virus, the virus that causes the flu, and viruses that cause the common cold are all different viruses and there are clinical tests that can differentiate between them.	If you are infected again, would the second infection be more serious?	During viral infection, the rule of thumb is that infection will lead to the development of a memory antibody response that is protective against future infection.	However, for some viruses, like dengue virus, the phenomenon of antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) of infection has been described, where antibodies from the first infection help worsen infection with a different dengue strain during the second infection.  There is evidence that this may occur during coronavirus infection and has been studied in regard to the SARS virus.  However, it remains unclear if ADE is also playing a role in the current novel coronavirus outbreak.  More studies are needed to determine if this is happening with SARS-CoV-2, the COVID-19 virus.	Is COVID-19 a biological weapon?	There is no evidence to suggest that COVID-19 virus is a biological weapon.  Scientific evidence suggests the COVID-19 virus spilled over from animals to people.  One paper showed that the COVID-19 virus is 96% genetically identical to a coronavirus that was previously identified in bats, and researchers are working to discover even closer coronavirus matches in animals to hone in on the path of spillover into people.  Two preliminary studies indicate that the COVID-19 virus could have passed through pangolins ("scaly anteaters").  As more research is conducted, the transmission chain of the COVID-19 virus will become clearer.	Is the novel coronavirus like the common cold?	There are about four strains of coronavirus that cause about 20% of the cases of common cold.  However, the COVID-19 virus can cause severe illness because it travels deep into the respiratory tract and infects the lungs.  This deep infection can make a person more susceptible for pneumonia.  About 80% of the cases of COVID-19 are mild but those with compromised immune systems and the elderly are at greater risk.	Is there a risk that COVID-19 in a pregnant woman or neonate could have long-term effects on infant health and development that may require clinical support beyond infancy?	At this time, there is no information on long-term health effects on infants either with COVID-19, or those exposed to the virus that causes COVID-19 in utero.  In general, prematurity and low birth weight are associated with adverse long-term health effects.	Should I avoid contact with pets or other animals if I am sick with COVID-19?	You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with COVID-19, just like you would around other people.  Although there have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the virus.  When possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick.  If you are sick with COVID-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food.  If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets and wear a facemask.	Was the COVID-19 virus made in a laboratory?	The COVID-19 virus was not designed in a laboratory.  The COVID-19 virus is most closely related (96% identical) to a coronavirus that was previously identified in bats.  Scientists are working around the clock to determine which animal was the original host of COVID-19 and which mutations the virus obtained that enabled it to infect humans.  The suggestion that the virus was created in a lab has been debunked and retracted.	What do I do if I am sick?	Call your doctor: If you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 and develop a fever and symptoms, such as cough or difficulty breathing, call your healthcare provider for medical advice.	If you are sick with COVID-19 or think you might have it, follow the steps below to help protect other people in your home and community.	Stay home: People who are mildly ill with COVID-19 are able to recover at home.  Do not leave, except to get medical care.  Do not visit public areas.	Stay in touch with your doctor.  Call before you get medical care.  Be sure to get care if you feel worse or you think it is an emergency.	Avoid public transportation: Avoid using public transportation, ride-sharing, or taxis.		Stay away from others: As much as possible, you should stay in a specific "sick room" and away from other people in your home.  Use a separate bathroom, if available.	Limit contact with pets & animals: You should restrict contact with pets and other animals, just like you would around other people.	Although there have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it is still recommended that people with the virus limit contact with animals until more information is known.	When possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick with COVID-19.  If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with them.  See COVID-19 and Animals for more information.		Call ahead: If you have a medical appointment, call your doctor's office or emergency department, and tell them you have or may have COVID-19.  This will help the office protect themselves and other patients.	If you are sick: You should wear a facemask when you are around other people and before you enter a healthcare provider's office.	If you are caring for others: If the person who is sick is not able to wear a facemask (for example, because it causes trouble breathing), then people who live in the home should stay in a different room.  When caregivers enter the room of the sick person, they should wear a facemask.  Visitors, other than caregivers, are not recommended.		Cover: Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.	Dispose: Throw used tissues in a lined trash can.	Wash hands: Immediately wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not available, clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.	Wash hands: Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  This is especially important after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food.	Hand sanitizer: If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol, covering all surfaces of your hands and rubbing them together until they feel dry.	Soap and water: Soap and water are the best option, especially if hands are visibly dirty.	Avoid touching: Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	The CDC provides additional handwashing tips.		Do not share: Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, or bedding with other people in your home.	Wash thoroughly after use: After using these items, wash them thoroughly with soap and water or put in the dishwasher.		Clean high-touch surfaces in your isolation area ("sick room" and bathroom) every day; let a caregiver clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces in other areas of the home.	Clean and disinfect: Routinely clean high-touch surfaces in your "sick room" and bathroom.  Let someone else clean and disinfect surfaces in common areas, but not your bedroom and bathroom.	If a caregiver or other person needs to clean and disinfect a sick person's bedroom or bathroom, they should do so on an as-needed basis.  The caregiver/other person should wear a mask and wait as long as possible after the sick person has used the bathroom.	High-touch surfaces include phones, remote controls, counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures, toilets, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables.	Clean and disinfect areas that may have blood, stool, or body fluids on them.	Household cleaners and disinfectants: Clean the area or item with soap and water or another detergent if it is dirty.  Then, use a household disinfectant.	Be sure to follow the instructions on the label to ensure safe and effective use of the product.  Many products recommend keeping the surface wet for several minutes to ensure germs are killed.  Many also recommend precautions such as wearing gloves and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product.	Most EPA-registered household disinfectants should be effective.  A full list of disinfectants can be found here.	Seek medical attention, but call first: Seek medical care right away if your illness is worsening (for example, if you have difficulty breathing).	Call your doctor before going in: Before going to the doctor's office or emergency room, call ahead and tell them your symptoms.  They will tell you what to do.	Wear a facemask: If possible, put on a facemask before you enter the building.  If you can't put on a facemask, try to keep a safe distance from other people (at least 6 feet away).  This will help protect the people in the office or waiting room.	Follow care instructions from your healthcare provider and local health department: Your local health authorities will give instructions on checking your symptoms and reporting information.	The CDC provides additional guidance for what to do if you are sick, how to take care of yourself at home, and how to take care of others at home.	What happens to the COVID-19 virus when it rains?	This is related to the assumptions that warmer air temperatures and higher humidity environments will slow the transmission of the virus.  While this is the case for influenza, some studies show that COVID-19 could follow the same patterns, however more research is necessary to prove such claims.  As of now, claims related to weather conditions and the transmission rates of COVID-19 relation remain non-conclusive.  Regarding "washing off" the virus from surfaces by water/rain, the only effective methods to disinfect and clean the surfaces as recommended by the CDC are: alcohol (70%), diluted household bleach solutions, and EPA-registered household disinfectants.  Be sure to check the labels of each product before use for proper guidance.	What is COVID-19?	The COVID-19 novel coronavirus is a new type of coronavirus that has not been previously identified.  Like many emerging pathogens, it jumped from animals to human populations and has caused the current pandemic.	The COVID-19 virus is a respiratory pathogen that is highly contagious, and it is far more lethal than the flu virus.	The signature symptoms of COVID-19 disease are fever, coughing, and shortness of breath.  If you think you are infected with the COVID-19 virus, call your doctor or healthcare provider to discuss how to proceed.	What is community spread?	Community spread means people have been infected with the virus in an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.	What is known about the clinical severity of COVID-19?	When infected with COVID-19, some people may exhibit no or minor symptoms, while others may become very sick, or even die.  The severity of the virus ranges from person to person.  Older people and people with preexisting health issues such as heart and lung disease have had a higher risk of developing more severe COVID-19 illnesses.	A large World Health Organization study of nearly 56,000 confirmed cases in China showed that about 80% of cases were mild to moderate, while 14% were severe and 6% were critical.  Critical cases exhibited respiratory failure, septic shock, and/or multiple organ dysfunction/failure.	As of March 26, around 4.5% of reported COVID-19 cases (globally) had died.  By comparison, seasonal flu generally kills about 0.1% of those infected on average.  The current mortality for known cases of COVID-19 is about 1.4% in South Korea and 0.6% in Germany, countries where there has been widespread testing.	What is the official name of the novel coronavirus?	The World Health Organization (WHO) has decided to name the disease caused by the novel coronavirus "COVID-19" and refers to the virus that causes it as the "COVID-19 virus."  CO for corona, VI for virus, D for disease, and 19 for the year the outbreak was first recognized, late in 2019.  Separately, the Coronavirus Study Group of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses has named the new virus severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2, or SARS-CoV-2; however, this name has generated controversy in the public health and infectious disease community.  Some feel the name could lead to confusion with the disease SARS, which is caused by a related, but distinct, type of coronavirus.	What is the risk to pregnant women of getting COVID-19?  Is it easier for pregnant women to become ill with the disease?  If they become infected, will they be more sick than other people?	We do not currently know if pregnant women have a greater chance of getting sick from COVID-19 than the general public nor whether they are more likely to have serious illness as a result.  Pregnant women experience changes in their bodies that may increase their risk of some infections.  With viruses from the same family as COVID-19, and other viral respiratory infections, such as influenza, women have had a higher risk of developing severe illness.  It is always important for pregnant women to protect themselves from illnesses.	What is the survivability of the COVID-19 virus as compared to other viruses?	While it is difficult to determine exactly how long viruses can stay intact outside the body, since it is so dependent on environmental conditions, different viruses do appear to have different levels of resiliency.  Flu viruses, for example, are generally rendered harmless after nine hours on hard surfaces and four hours on soft surfaces.  The Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), which is in the same virus family as COVID-19 virus, lasts for two days on hard surfaces.  A recent study concluded that human coronaviruses can last on surfaces at room temperature for up to 9 days.  The World Health Organization's early estimates suggest that COVID-19 virus can survive on hard surfaces for a few hours, or up to several days.	What precautions should be taken for animals that have been recently imported from China?	Animals imported from China will need to meet CDC and USDA requirements for entering the United States.  At this time, there is no evidence that companion animals including pets can spread COVID-19.  As with any animal introduced to a new environment, animals recently imported from China should be observed daily for signs of illness.  If an animal becomes ill, the animal should be examined by a veterinarian.  Call your local veterinary clinic before bringing the animal into the clinic and let them know that the animal was recently in China.	When do scientists predict that spread of coronavirus and the number of cases will begin to plateau or decrease?	Overall, it is difficult to predict when cases will diminish, particularly in the US.  Some experts have suggested a seasonal role.  Infectious disease physician at Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security Amesh Adalja suggests that COVID-19 is akin to the seasonal cold and predicts some "tapering off of cases" as we head into spring and summer in the northern hemisphere, while the virus may have increased transmission in parts of the southern hemisphere.  Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Dr Anthony Fauci is also hopeful that cases will diminish as the weather becomes warmer, but both he and others caution that we don't have enough information to predict the seasonal behavior of the virus (see Australia, which is currently in its warm season, yet still experiencing COVID-19 outbreaks).	If we look to the timelines of other countries for comparison: in the US, the rapidly increasing number of cases resembles the beginning of an exponential curve -similar to Italy.  However, cases in China and South Korea are beginning to decrease, suggesting they may have begun to "plateau."  It took approximately two months for China to reach this stage from the beginning of the outbreak and South Korea roughly half a month, although due to differences in response times, testing, and approaches to tracing cases /public health interventions, it may be difficult to extrapolate what has happened in other countries to the US.	In the US, it is difficult to tell when the peak will arrive, partly due to the limitations in testing.  Additionally, we may see second or third waves of outbreaks even after cases begin to decrease.  Therefore, while it may not be unreasonable to hope for an end sometime in late April or May based on these predictions and cases, we simply do not have enough information to say for certain.	When is someone infectious?	The onset and duration of viral shedding and period of infectiousness for COVID-19 are not yet known.  It is possible that SARS-CoV-2 RNA may be detectable in the upper or lower respiratory tract for weeks after illness onset, similar to infection with MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV.  However, detection of viral RNA does not necessarily mean that infectious virus is present.  Asymptomatic infection with SARS-CoV-2 has been reported, but it is not yet known what role asymptomatic infection plays in transmission.  Similarly, the role of pre-symptomatic transmission (infection detection during the incubation period prior to illness onset) is unknown.  Existing literature regarding SARS-CoV-2 and other coronaviruses (e.g MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV) suggest that the incubation period may range from 2-- 14 days.	Where did the coronavirus come from?	Researchers have found that three quarters of new diseases come from animals.  This is because every time a virus replicates, its genes can mutate and make it possible to spread from animals to people.  Experts believe the novel coronavirus likely came from bats or pangolins.	Which body fluids can spread infection?	Very limited data are available about detection of SARS-CoV-2 and infectious virus in clinical specimens.  SARS-CoV-2 RNA has been detected from upper and lower respiratory tract specimens, and SARS-CoV-2 has been isolated from upper respiratory tract specimens and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.  SARS-CoV-2 RNA has been detected in blood and stool specimens, but whether infectious virus is present in extrapulmonary specimens is currently unknown.  The duration of SARS-CoV-2 RNA detection in upper and lower respiratory tract specimens and in extrapulmonary specimens is not yet known but may be several weeks or longer, which has been observed in cases of MERS-CoV or SARS-CoV infection.  While viable, infectious SARS-CoV has been isolated from respiratory, blood, urine, and stool specimens, in contrast --viable, infectious MERS-CoV has only been isolated from respiratory tract specimens.  It is not yet known whether other non-respiratory body fluids from an infected person including vomit, urine, breast milk, or semen can contain viable, infectious SARS-CoV-2.	Why would someone blame or avoid individuals and groups because of COVID-19?	People in the U.S may be worried or anxious about friends and relatives who are living in or visiting areas where COVID-19 is spreading.  Some people are worried about the disease.  Fear and anxiety can lead to social stigma, for example, towards Chinese or other Asian Americans or people who were in quarantine.	Stigma is discrimination against an identifiable group of people, a place, or a nation.  Stigma is associated with a lack of knowledge about how COVID-19 spreads, a need to blame someone, fears about disease and death, and gossip that spreads rumors and myths.	Stigma hurts everyone by creating more fear or anger towards ordinary people instead of the disease that is causing the problem.	Will the coronavirus survive in the refrigerator or freezer?	A 2010 study used two viruses that are related to the COVID-19 virus to look at the effects of temperature and humidity on viral survival.  Researchers found that both lower temperatures and lower humidity helped viruses survive longer.  In particular, at 4 degrees C, or 40 degrees F, and 20% relative humidity, more than two thirds of the viruses survived for 28 days.  On the other end of the spectrum, at 40 degrees C, or 104 degrees F, and 80% humidity, the viruses survived for less than 6 hours.	This suggests that coronaviruses survive better on surfaces at colder temperatures.  It is also expected that the virus would survive being frozen.	It is important to wash your hands and your produce, following sound food handling guidelines.  Also, clean surfaces using approved disinfectants.	Will warmer weather reduce the spread of COVID-19?	There is still much to learn about the COVID-19 virus and experts currently do not know if it will diminish as the weather warms like the cold or flu.  Other similar coronaviruses do not seem to slow down during the warmer months so researchers estimate that the COVID-19 virus may not slow down either.	Am I at risk if I go to a funeral or visitation service for someone who died of COVID-19?	There is currently no known risk associated with being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with the body of someone who died of COVID-19.	Can COVID-19 be passed from a pregnant woman to the fetus or newborn?	We still do not know if a pregnant woman with COVID-19 can pass the virus that causes COVID-19 to her fetus or baby during pregnancy or delivery.  No infants born to mothers with COVID-19 have tested positive for the COVID-19 virus.  In these cases, which are a small number, the virus was not found in samples of amniotic fluid or breastmilk.	Can just hot water kill the COVID-19 virus on surfaces?  If yes, for how long?	No, hot water alone cannot kill the virus that causes COVID-19 on surfaces.  The virus (SARS-CoV-2) has a fat-based envelope that makes it very susceptible to detergents and alcohol.	While it is likely that very high temperatures will also inactivate the virus, this is not an advised household practice due to the risk of burns and lack of testing on what temperature is needed and for how long.  Soapy water or an alcohol-based disinfectant are better and easier ways to clean surfaces.  Specifically, the CDC recommends alcohol (70%), diluted household bleach solutions, and EPA-registered household disinfectants.  Be sure to check the labels of each product before use for proper guidance.	Does the size of a population make a difference in outcomes during an outbreak (US vs Italy, for example)?	We often talk about outbreaks in terms of the proportion of a population that is affected.  Important factors in determining the proportion of a population that is affected include population density (the proximity of an infectious person to others influences disease transmission), public health interventions (which reduce the likelihood of exposure), and medical infrastructure/capacity (which determines our ability to treat and prevent death in those that are severely ill).	Population size does not directly impact the proportion of a population that will be affected.  Factors that would determine proportion affected, especially when it comes to COVID-19, are the population's demographics (e.g age and existing chronic medical conditions like heart disease, diabetes, lung disease, immune compromised).	In what ways could the healthcare system become overwhelmed?	COVID-19 can lead to dehydration, pneumonia, lung inflammation, and septic shock, and about 20 percent of people with COVID-19 require hospitalization.  The pressure on the healthcare system is expected to come from people needing treatment, such as intravenous hydration and ventilation.	Early reports from China estimated that about 6 percent of patients needed ventilator support.  But only about 25 percent of those who died had been placed on ventilators, suggesting that supply was limiting.  Italian physicians recently reported that 10 percent of COVID-19 patients require mechanical ventilation, and Italy may have less than a quarter of the ventilator machines it needs.	US hospitals are taking steps like canceling elective surgeries to free up ventilators that would otherwise be used on sedated patients having procedures like hip replacements, and preparing to move ventilators to hot spots of infection within multi-hospital systems.  They are also planning to bring some older models back into use, and the Strategic National Stockpile has 13,000 ventilators that can be deployed as need arises.  However, depending on how bad the coronavirus pandemic gets in the US, individual cities could potentially be thousands of ventilators short as patients flood hospitals.	Is Bactine effective as hand sanitizer against COVID-19 virus?	According to the active ingredients list, Bactine uses Benzalkonium as an antiseptic (as substance that stops germs).  One recent study found that Benzalkoium is not as effective as alcohol-based sanitizers in destroying the virus.  Instead, the CDC recommends using hand sanitizers with at least 60% alcohol content.	Is it safe to use a swimming pool during the COVID-19 outbreak?	According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as long as the swimming pool is properly maintained with the appropriate levels of chlorine and bromine, pools and also hot tubs should inactivate the COVID-19 virus.  However, it is still possible to contract the virus through contact with infected surfaces, like door knobs, or through coughs and sneezes from infected individuals.	Is maternal illness with COVID-19 during lactation associated with potential risk to a breastfeeding infant?	Human-to-human transmission by close contact with a person with confirmed COVID-19 has been reported and is thought to occur mainly via respiratory droplets produced when a person with infection coughs or sneezes.	In limited case series reported to date, no evidence of virus has been found in the breast milk of women with COVID-19.  No information is available on the transmission of the virus that causes COVID-19 through breast milk (i.e, whether infectious virus is present in the breast milk of an infected woman).	In limited reports of lactating women infected with SARS-CoV, virus has not been detected in breast milk; however, antibodies against SARS-CoV were detected in at least one sample.	My family member died from COVID-19 while overseas.  What are the requirements for returning the body to the United States?	CDC does not require an autopsy before the remains of a person who died overseas are returned to the United States.  Depending on the circumstances surrounding the death, some countries may require an autopsy.  Sources of support to the family include the local consulate or embassy, travel insurance provider, tour operator, faith-based and aid organizations, and the deceased's employer.  There likely will need to be an official identification of the body and official documents issued by the consular office.	CDC requirements for importing human remains depend upon if the body has been embalmed, cremated, or if the person died from a quarantinable communicable disease.	At this time, COVID-19 is a quarantinable communicable disease in the United States and the remains must meet the standards for importation found in 42 Code of Federal Regulations Part 71.55 and may be cleared, released, and authorized for entry into the United States only under the following conditions:	The remains are accompanied by a permit issued by the CDC Director.	The CDC permit (if applicable) must accompany the human remains at all times during shipment.	Permits for the importation of the remains of a person known or suspected to have died from a quarantinable communicable disease may be obtained through the CDC Division of Global Migration and Quarantine by calling the CDC Emergency Operations Center.	What should I do if I am breastfeeding and being evaluated for COVID-19 virus infection?	This interim guidance is intended for women who are confirmed to have COVID-19 or are persons-under-investigation (PUI) for COVID-19 and are currently breastfeeding.  This interim guidance is based on what is currently known about COVID-19 and the transmission of other viral respiratory infections.  CDC will update this interim guidance as needed as additional information becomes available.  For breastfeeding guidance in the immediate postpartum setting, refer to Interim Considerations for Infection Prevention and Control of 2019 Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Inpatient Obstetric Healthcare Settings.		Much is unknown about how COVID-19 is spread.  Person-to-person spread is thought to occur mainly via respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes, similar to how influenza (flu) and other respiratory pathogens spread.  In limited studies on women with COVID-19 and another coronavirus infection, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV), the virus has not been detected in breast milk; however we do not know whether mothers with COVID-19 can transmit the virus via breast milk.		Breast milk provides protection against many illnesses.  There are rare exceptions when breastfeeding or feeding expressed breast milk is not recommended.  CDC has no specific guidance for breastfeeding during infection with similar viruses like SARS-CoV or Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV).	Outside of the immediate postpartum setting, CDC recommends that a mother with flu continue breastfeeding or feeding expressed breast milk to her infant while taking precautions to avoid spreading the virus to her infant.		Breast milk is the best source of nutrition for most infants.  However, much is unknown about COVID-19.  Whether and how to start or continue breastfeeding should be determined by the mother in coordination with her family and healthcare providers.  A mother with confirmed COVID-19 or who is a symptomatic PUI should take all possible precautions to avoid spreading the virus to her infant, including washing her hands before touching the infant and wearing a face mask, if possible, while feeding at the breast.  If expressing breast milk with a manual or electric breast pump, the mother should wash her hands before touching any pump or bottle parts and follow recommendations for proper pump cleaning after each use.  If possible, consider having someone who is well feed the expressed breast milk to the infant.	What should I do if a member of my family dies from COVID-19 while they are overseas?	When a US citizen dies outside the United States, the deceased person's next of kin or legal representative should notify US consular officials at the Department of State.  Consular personnel are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to provide assistance to US citizens for overseas emergencies.  If a family member, domestic partner, or legal representative is in a different country from the deceased person, he or she should call the Department of State's Office of Overseas Citizens Services in Washington, DC, from 8 am to 5 pm Eastern time, Monday through Friday.  For emergency assistance after working hours or on weekends and holidays, call the Department of State switchboard and ask to speak with the Overseas Citizens Services duty officer.  In addition, the US embassy closest to or in the country where the US citizen died can provide assistance.	What symptoms should I look out for when taking care of someone at home?  When do I know it is time to seek immediate medical attention for them?	Have their healthcare provider's contact information on hand.  If they are getting sicker, call their healthcare provider.  For medical emergencies, call 911 and notify the dispatch personnel that they have or are suspected to have COVID-19.	People who develop emergency warning signs for COVID-19 should get medical attention immediately.	This list is not all inclusive.  Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.	When is it okay to end home isolation, or leave home, after recovering from COVID-19?	If they will be tested to determine if they are still contagious, they can leave home after these three things have happened: They received two negative tests in a row, 24 hours apart.  Their doctor will follow CDC guidelines.	The CDC provides additional guidance for what to do if you are sick, how to take care of yourself at home, and how to take care of others at home.	Who should be donating blood now in response to the current blood shortage?  What factors should be considered, like blood type and risk?	The Red Cross is currently facing shortages of all blood types and products due to COVID-19-related cancellations of blood drives.  As of March 19th, individuals are asked to refrain from donating for 28 days after any of the following conditions: travel to China, Hong Kong, Macau, Iran, Italy or South Korea; diagnosis of COVID-19; contact with someone who is confirmed or suspected to have COVID-19.  Healthy individuals are strongly encouraged to donate.	Will there be permanent damage to my lungs or other organs if I'm infected with the COVID-19 virus?	Doctors in Hong Kong have found that some patients who fully recovered from the coronavirus can be left with substantial lung capacity weakening, with some patients experiencing a drop of 20-30%.  However, doctors commented that patients can pursue cardiovascular exercises such as swimming to improve their lung capacity over time.	At this point, it is still too early to conclusively state the long-term effects of the coronavirus on lung capacity.  Other organs that can be impacted are the stomach, liver, and the kidneys.	Am I at risk for COVID-19 in the United States?	This is a rapidly evolving situation and the risk assessment may change daily.  The latest updates are available on CDC's Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) website.	Am I at risk if I touch someone who died of COVID-19 after they have passed away?	COVID-19 is a new disease and we are still learning how it spreads.  The virus that causes COVID-19 is thought to mainly spread from close contact (i.e, within about 6 feet) with a person who is currently sick with COVID-19.  The virus likely spreads primarily through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes, similar to how influenza and other respiratory infections spread.  These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.  This type of spread is not a concern after death.	It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	People should consider not touching the body of someone who has died of COVID-19.  Older people and people of all ages with severe underlying health conditions are at higher risk of developing serious COVID-19 illness.  There may be less of a chance of the virus spreading from certain types of touching, such as holding the hand or hugging after the body has been prepared for viewing.  Other activities, such as kissing, washing, and shrouding should be avoided before, during, and after the body has been prepared, if possible.  If washing the body or shrouding are important religious or cultural practices, families are encouraged to work with their community cultural and religious leaders and funeral home staff on how to reduce their exposure as much as possible.  At a minimum, people conducting these activities should wear disposable gloves.  If splashing of fluids is expected, additional personal protective equipment (PPE) may be required (such as disposable gown, faceshield or goggles and facemask).	Cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products (e.g, concentration, application method and contact time, etc.) 	are expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses.  After removal of PPE, perform hand hygiene by washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water are not available.  Soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled.	Are ammonia-based wipes an effective disinfectant for COVID-19?	Neither the American Chemistry Council nor the EPA recommend ammonia for killing COVID-19 on surfaces.  Bleach is a much better option.	Are people with hyper/overly active immune systems, such as those with MS, at high risk like those with weakened immune systems?	For patients with autoimmune disorders such as Multiple Sclerosis, treatments often include suppressing some aspects of the immune system.  This means that these individuals may be more susceptible to the virus (SARS-CoV-2) that causes the disease COVID-19.  Despite this, healthcare providers do not recommend discontinuing treatment regimens for these patients, as this may increase the risk for opportunistic infections.	Patients with MS taking alemtuzumab, cladribine, ocrelizumab, rituximab, fingolimod, dimethyl fumarate, teriflunomide or siponimod are strongly encouraged to take precautions by at least doing the following: 1) social distancing, maintaining at least a 6-foot distance from infected individuals, 2) frequent hand washing for at least 20 seconds, and 3) avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth.	The effect of SARS-CoV-2 in patients with overactive immunity not on immunosuppressive treatments has not been investigated.  Although, based on our current understanding of the interaction between the related coronavirus SARS and the immune system, hyperactive immunity may be detrimental, leading to overactive inflammation and tissue damage in the lung.  Therefore, in these patients the above prevention measures also apply.		)Yes, SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes the disease COVID-19) can survive on surfaces like dollar bills.  How long the virus survives is dependent on the surface itself as well as environmental conditions.  At most, the virus will persist for 2-3 days under optimal conditions.	Preliminary findings suggest that COVID-19 may persist on money for a longer period of time than cardboard/paper-based products because cash in the United States is composed of 25% linen and 75% cotton, not paper.	Current research has shown that cash may be a potential vector of transmissible diseases, such as bacteria and viruses; however, no research has been done on COVID-19 virus specifically.  For this reason, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends thoroughly washing hands after handling money and moving towards cashless payment methods when possible.	Can my pet dog or cat catch COVID-19 and give it to me?  Could the virus be on animal fur?	Current research suggests it is highly unlikely for pets to catch or transmit COVID-19.  There is one dog in Hong Kong that tested positive in quarantine for a very low level COVID-19 infection.  But, there is no evidence that pets can get sick from the virus or give it to humans.	However, if someone infected with the COVID-19 virus were to, for example, cough on a bench that a dog then brushed up against, picking up virus on its fur, and you then pet the dog, getting virus on your hands, and then touched your face and breathed in the virus, there's a chance you could become infected.  Depending on the conditions, the World Health Organization estimates the COVID-19 virus can survive for a few hours to several days outside the human body.	Can people infected with COVID-19 spread the disease before appearing to be ill?	Yes.  US health officials have indicated that the COVID-19 virus can indeed be spread by infected individuals prior to the onset of symptoms such as coughing, fever, and shortness of breath.  National and international health organizations working to mitigate the spread of the virus are still collecting data on asymptomatic transmission (transmission by people who show no symptoms).	Could the coronavirus be on fruits, vegetables, produce, or other food products?	Researchers have found that the COVID-19 virus can be viable on plastic for up to 3 days, and on cardboard for up to 24 hours.  So it would not be surprising to find COVID-19 virus on, for example, a piece of fruit in a bin at a grocery store that gets lots of customers.  However, by following good food handling and preparation practices, you can minimize your risk of contracting COVID-19.	It is important to follow traditional food preparation guidelines such as washing produce and other foods well with water, cooking food thoroughly, and washing your hands with soap and water before and after food preparation, and before eating.	Could the tap water I drink have coronavirus in it?	The COVID-19 virus has not been detected indrinking water.  Conventional water treatment methods that use filtration and disinfection, such as those in most municipal drinking water systems, should remove or inactivate the virus that causes COVID-19.	How can I prevent myself from getting the virus?	To ensure the lowest chance of obtaining the virus, and spreading the virus to others, it is critical that everyone begin intensive social distancing immediately.  As much as possible, limit contact with people outside your family.	Furthermore, it is recommended to do the following: avoid touching your nose, eyes, and mouth; keep your distance from people, especially those who look sick; wash your hands frequently especially before eating, after exiting a densely populated area, and after coughing and sneezing; and disinfect personal items regularly.	How do I prevent myself from becoming sick when taking care of someone who is already sick?	Have the person stay in one room, away from other people, including yourself, as much as possible.	If possible, have them use a separate bathroom.	Avoid sharing personal household items, like dishes, towels, and bedding.	If facemasks are available, have them wear a facemask when they are around people, including you.	If the sick person can't wear a facemask, you should wear one while in the same room with them, if facemasks are available.	If the sick person needs to be around others (within the home, in a vehicle, or doctor's office), they should wear a facemask.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after interacting with the sick person.  If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.  Cover all surfaces of your hands and rub them together until they feel dry.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.	Every day, clean all surfaces that are touched often, like counters, tabletops, and doorknobs.	Use household cleaning sprays or wipes according to the label instructions.	Wash laundry thoroughly.	If laundry is soiled, wear disposable gloves and keep the soiled items away from your body while laundering.  Wash your hands immediately after removing gloves.	Avoid having any unnecessary visitors.	For any additional questions about their care, contact their healthcare provider or state or local health department.	The CDC provides additional guidance for what to do if you are sick, how to take care of yourself at home, and how to take care of others at home.	How do hand sanitizers work?	For a virus, sanitizers work by disrupting the virus's outer coat, including the novel coronavirus.  For bacteria ,they work by disrupting its cell membrane.  According to the CDC, hand sanitizers are effective when they contain at least 60 percent rubbing alcohol.  However, they are not effective against viruses that do not have these coatings, like the norovirus, which causes the stomach flu.  This is why proper hand washing habits are more important than relying on just hand sanitizer.  Hand-washing for at least 20 seconds is overall the most effective way to get rid of viruses.	How long does the COVID-19 virus stay transmissible?	Currently, experts do not know exactly how long the virus can stay infectious because it is so new.  Typically, viruses last longer on hard surfaces, like a countertop or plastic or metal playground equipment, than on soft surfaces, like a sleeve, because they depend on moisture to survive.  Soft surfaces quickly absorb the moisture, leaving the virus unprotected and causing it to degrade more quickly.  Scientists are estimating that the virus lasts for between a few hours to several days outside the body, and can last up to 24 hours on cardboard and 3 days on plastic or stainless steel.	How should I take care of someone at home?	Most people who get sick with COVID-19 will have only mild illness and should recover at home* Care at home can help stop the spread of COVID-19 and help protect people who are at risk for getting seriously ill from COVID-19.	If you are caring for someone at home, monitor for emergency signs, prevent the spread of germs, treat symptoms, and carefully consider when to end home isolation.	*Note: Older adults and people of any age with certain serious underlying medical conditions like lung disease, heart disease, or diabetes are at higher risk for developing more serious complications from COVID-19 illness and should seek care as soon as symptoms start.	If two people are suspected to be infected, can they self isolate in close proximity to each other?	Unless it is unavoidable, two people 'suspected' of being infected should not be isolated together if they will have contact with each other or the potential to spread the disease between one another.  That's because one of them may have contracted the virus and the other may not have and placing them in close proximity could result in both getting infected.  If two people in the same household need to self-isolate then they should do so by themselves, taking the same precautions as if they were trying to isolate themselves near a healthy person.	Is hand sanitizer effective against the virus?	If used properly, alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol is an effective way to kill the COVID-19 virus.  Hand sanitizer is often faster and easier, however if you have the option, you should wash your hands with soap for 20 seconds.  This is overall the most effective way to get rid of the coronavirus and other viruses.	Is it safe to go to the grocery store?	If you're in short supply of food and supplies, and think that going for groceries is an absolute need, you can go.  But keep in mind to take appropriate precautions, use hand sanitizer if you touch surfaces, and maintain as much social distancing as possible.  Also, try to make a list upfront and spend less time wandering around in the store.  Additionally, think about stocking up some supplies so that you can reduce the number of trips over time.	If you believe you might be at a higher risk, consider asking a neighbor/community helper and/or relative to run to the store for you.  Given the fact that COVID-19 has been proven to be especially dangerous for seniors with weak immune systems, it is highly recommended to avoid groups of seniors.	Is it safe to go to the gym on playdates to parties out to the bars for drinks to sleepovers to friends' or family members' homes for meals or visits to coffee shops.?..	Spread of the COVID-19 virus makes visiting the gym, and all social interactions, riskier.  Many facilities have already shut down and more and more localities are taking steps to limit social interactions.	Harvard Medical School experts recommend that everyone begin intensive social distancing immediately, limiting contact with people outside your family as much as possible.  This protects both you and those in your communities who are at higher risk of severe medical complications from COVID-19.  Basically, we need to end any nonessential activities that involve close contact with others to prevent spread of the disease.	If you need to go out to get food, staples, medications, or healthcare, try to stay at least six feet away from others, and wash your hands thoroughly after the trip, avoiding contact with your face and mouth throughout.  Prepare your own food rather than going to a restaurant or even getting takeout.	Again, it's best to avoid the gym; but if you do go, be sure to wipe down anything you are about to touch, and once more after you use the equipment.  Try to keep a distance of 6 feet or more from others.	Is it safe to read my mail or the newspaper or handle packages delivered to my house?	While the likelihood of becoming infected with the COVID-19 virus from mail, newspapers, or packages is low, the CDC says it's a good idea to wipe them down with a disinfecting cloth that contains bleach.	Out of an abundance of caution during the pandemic, when handling or reading your mail, the newspaper, or packages, it would be best to avoid touching your face.  Also, wash your hands with soap and water after handling, and keep them in one spot in your home.	A recent study found that the COVID-19 virus can remain viable on cardboard for about 24 hours, and up to 3 days on plastic.	Q: Will vodka or other hard alcohols work as disinfectants against the coronavirus?  What about vinegar?	Vodka, or other hard alcohols, are not recommended for disinfecting surfaces.  Furthermore, there is no evidence that vinegar is effective against coronavirus.  It would be best to use diluted bleach solutions (1/3 cup for every gallon of water), alcohol-based cleaners with 70% alcohol, or most EPA-registered disinfectants.  Surfaces should also be cleaned prior to disinfecting them.  (If they are visibly dirty, the disinfectant will be less effective).  The CDC has guidance on how best to clean surfaces.	Should I wear a face mask if I'm not sick?	Face masks are not recommended for those who are not sick, except in the case of health care workers and others who are looking after sick individuals.  Doctors also recommend that sick individuals use face masks to temporarily prevent the spread of disease to others.  The World Health Organization (WHO) advises against others using face masks due to the worldwide shortage of masks.	What do funeral home workers need to know about handling decedents who had COVID-19?	A funeral or visitation service can be held for a person who has died of COVID-19.  Funeral home workers should follow their routine infection prevention and control precautions when handling a decedent who died of COVID-19.  If it is necessary to transfer a body to a bag, follow Standard Precautions, including additional personal protective equipment (PPE) if splashing of fluids is expected.  For transporting a body after the body has been bagged, disinfect the outside of the bag with a product with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses.  Follow the manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products (e.g, concentration, application method and contact time, etc.)   Wear disposable nitrile gloves when handling the body bag.	Embalming can be conducted.  During embalming, follow Standard Precautions including the use of additional PPE if splashing is expected (e.g disposable gown, faceshield or goggles and facemask).  Wear appropriate respiratory protection if any procedures will generate aerosols or if required for chemicals used in accordance with the manufacturer's label.  Wear heavy-duty gloves over nitrile disposable gloves if there is a risk of cuts, puncture wounds, or other injuries that break the skin.  Additional information on how to safely conduct aerosol-generating procedures is in the CDC's Postmortem Guidance.  Cleaning should be conducted in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.  Products with EPA-approved emerging viral pathogens claims are expected to be effective against COVID-19 based on data for harder to kill viruses.  Follow the manufacturer's instructions for all cleaning and disinfection products (e.g, concentration, application method and contact time, etc.) 	After cleaning and removal of PPE, perform hand hygiene by washing hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol if soap and water is not available.  Soap and water should be used if the hands are visibly soiled.	Decedents with COVID-19 can be buried or cremated, but check for any additional state and local requirements that may dictate the handling and disposition of the remains of individuals who have died of certain infectious diseases.	What is the best way to use hand sanitizer?	The best technique is to apply about a dime-sized amount, and then carefully and thoroughly rub it over the palms and the back of the hands and let it dry completely.  Hand sanitizer is a good way to reduce the possibility of transmission if soap and water is not available (and if kids have a hard time washing their hands properly), but hand-washing for at least 20 seconds is overall the most effective way to get rid of viruses.	What is the survivability of the COVID-19 virus outside the human body?	Currently, experts do not know exactly how long the virus can stay infectious because it is so new.  The World Health Organization's early estimates suggest that COVID-19 virus can survive on hard surfaces for a few hours, or up to several days.  This may vary under different conditions (e.g type of surface, temperature or humidity of the environment).  If you think a surface may be infected, clean it with a bleach or alcohol based disinfectant to kill the virus and protect yourself and others.  There is no advantage to using antibacterial soap versus regular soap against viruses.	What should I do if an outbreak occurs near me?	Just like people should prepare for hurricanes, people should be prepared in case of a pandemic.  People should have a two-week supply of food, water, and necessary prescription and non-prescription medicines, copies of electronic health records, and a plan for how to take care of loved ones if they get sick.	During any outbreak, people should also practice good hygiene, like washing hands with soap and water frequently, to prevent the spread of illness.  To prevent infection, limiting your interactions with others by taking measures like, if at all possible, working from home, is also recommended.	What should people at higher risk of serious illness with COVID-19 do?	If you are at higher risk of getting very sick from COVID-19, you should: stock up on supplies; take everyday precautions to keep space between yourself and others; when you go out in public, keep away from others who are sick; limit close contact and wash your hands often; and avoid crowds, cruise travel, and non-essential travel.  If there is an outbreak in your community, stay home as much as possible.  Watch for symptoms and emergency signs.  If you get sick, stay home and call your doctor.  More information on how to prepare, what to do if you get sick, and how communities and caregivers can support those at higher risk is available on People at Risk for Serious Illness from COVID-19.	Why do viruses survive outside the human body?	Viruses survive outside our bodies because of how they are built.  Specifically, they are pieces of genetic material (RNA or DNA) contained in a special coating of proteins called capsids.  Viruses cannot replicate unless absorbed by cells in our body.  Once a virus is outside the body, its capsid starts to degrade, and the more degraded its capsid is, the less likely it is to survive.  When outside the body, these capsids degrade faster in cold, dry environments.  They also degrade faster on soft, rather than on hard surfaces.  That's because they need moisture to survive and soft surfaces absorb that moisture.	Why is washing hands with soap and water so important?	Soap destroys germs by wedging into them and essentially pulling them apart.  The coronavirus can be thought of as a grease ball.  Soap is a bit like a magnet: One part of soap molecules is attracted to water and repelled by the grease (fats/proteins that surround the virus' genome).  The other part of soap molecules is attracted to fats but repelled by water.  This is a lethal combination for anything soap comes into contact with that involves fats/proteins and water, including coronavirus.	The detergent we use to wash our clothes accomplishes essentially the same thing as soap.  Wash your laundry as you normally do, but don't overload on detergent.  This won't make a difference, and it can ruin your laundry machine.  High heat wash and dry cycles are only recommended if the person wearing the clothes in question is actively sick (or came into contact with someone who was actively sick), and therefore shedding larger amounts of virus into their clothing (such as by coughing/sneezing directly into their shirt).	Will a face mask prevent me from getting the virus?	While masks can capture droplets, which is a main transmission route of coronavirus, viruses can also be transmitted via the eyes.  The World Health Organization (WHO), however, recommends avoiding use of face masks as a method of prevention due to the current world supply shortage.  Instead, you should use a facemask if you have experienced any symptoms to prevent spread to others or if you are likely to be in close contact with someone infected and have trained on how to use the mask properly.	Should businesses recommend facemasks or other protective equipment during travel?	CDC does not recommend travelers wear facemasks to protect themselves from COVID-19.  You may choose to wear a mask, but it is more important that you take these steps.	We recommend that everyone follow everyday prevention practices:	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning product.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.	If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%-- 95% alcohol.	Are pregnant healthcare personnel at increased risk for adverse outcomes if they care for patients with COVID-19?	Pregnant healthcare personnel (HCP) should follow risk assessment and infection control guidelines for HCP exposed to patients with suspected or confirmed COVID-19.  Adherence to recommended infection prevention and control practices is an important part of protecting all HCP in healthcare settings.  Information on COVID-19 in pregnancy is very limited; facilities may want to consider limiting exposure of pregnant HCP to patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19, especially during higher risk procedures (e.g, aerosol-generating procedures) if feasible based on staffing availability.	Do patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 need to be admitted to the hospital?	Not all patients with COVID-19 require hospital admission.  Patients whose clinical presentation warrants in-patient clinical management for supportive medical care should be admitted to the hospital under appropriate isolation precautions.  Some patients with an initial mild clinical presentation may worsen in the second week of illness.  The decision to monitor these patients in the inpatient or outpatient setting should be made on a case-by-case basis.  This decision will depend not only on the clinical presentation, but also on the patient's ability to engage in monitoring, the ability for safe isolation at home, and the risk of transmission in the patient's home environment.	Since there is a shortage of masks, is it possible to make your own?	The CDC has stated that healthy individuals do not need to use masks.  You should only use a mask if you are sick, to prevent others from getting sick as well, or if you care for someone who is sick.  However, the CDC has stated that if you need to use a mask, and none are available, that homemade masks such as bandanas or scarves may be used as a last resort.  Although, there have not been studies done to see whether these are effective.  More recently, as hospitals and healthcare workers experience shortages of personal protective equipment, calls are going out for community volunteers to sew face fabric, reusable masks.  There are several websites with patterns and directions, and studies have been conducted comparing DIY mask materials with vacuum cleaner bags, pillowcase fabric, and 100% cotton t-shirt material most protective, though not as protective as a commercial N95 mask.	What should healthcare workers be wearing to be protected when dealing with patients?	The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recommends that healthcare workers use a combination of standard procedures to protect themselves, including wearing gowns, gloves, eye/face protection, and respirators that provide protection against breathing in contaminated air.  However, this respirator mask is not suitable for children, people with facial hair, and those with respiratory conditions such as asthma.  See the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health's guidelines for the types of respirators that should be used.	What type of mask should I wear?	Those who are advised to wear masks should use respirators that follow the guidelines provided by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.  The face masks that are most often used by the public are generally considered ineffective against the spread of disease because they often do not create a tight seal against the face and offer little protection when moist.  The cloth reusable face masks offer even less protection because often people do not clean them properly and can actually transmit diseases to the wearer through the moisture trapped on the inside and outside of them.  Doctors recommend that only sick individuals use face masks to temporarily prevent the spread of disease to others.	Can children get COVID-19?	Yes.  Children can catch the virus which causes COVID-19.  However, children are no more likely to get COVID-19 than adults, and when they do catch it, they typically have mild symptoms, and many have no symptoms at all.	It is not clear whether children are less likely to catch the virus.  Since they often have milder symptoms than adults, it may be that their cases are just less likely to be detected.  Data from the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention reported fewer infections in teenagers and children than in older people.  This same pattern was seen during the 2002-2003 outbreaks of SARS coronavirus, a virus that is closely related to the COVID-19 virus.	Is it safe to visit a newborn baby?  If not, how long should I stay away?	While children seem to fare well during coronavirus infections, newborns do not have fully developed immune systems.  A study of children conducted in China found that of various age groups, newborns were the most likely to develop severe to critical symptoms.  It would be best to avoid visiting until after this outbreak is over.  Not only could a visit place the infant at risk, but it could also infect the parent( s).  For now it is advisable to stick to digital forms of communication.	Should all schools close because of COVID-19?	It is important to remember that there are many economic and social considerations that come with school closures.  When schools are closed, children miss out on learning.  Extended closures may lead to children falling behind.  They can also cause parents to miss work when they have to stay home with their kids.	Low-income and single-parent households are particularly affected by school closures.  Employers may not grant paid sick time to workers, leaving parents to choose between leaving children in less-than-ideal care or unsupervised, or not being able to pay for basic needs.	Schools often also serve as an important social support, providing hot meals and needed services to low-income and homeless children.  Indeed, for this exact reason, New York City leaders have announced that they see school closures as a last resort.  Thus, the decision to close schools and when to close them is very complicated and will depend on a number of factors.	Why close schools if children do not get very sick with COVID-19?	Even children who do not show symptoms may still carry the disease and pass it on to others.  COVID-19 can easily be transmitted from person to person, and people do not have pre-existing immunity.  Without controls, a large proportion of the population could become infected in any area where the virus circulates.  In areas where large outbreaks occur, the health system may become overwhelmed, leading to an increasing fatality rate for COVID-19 as well as an increase in deaths from all causes.  The severity of the situation thus requires communities to do what they can to limit transmission, including closing schools if necessary.	Would closing schools help prevent the spread of COVID-19?	In the past, closing schools does appear to have helped to control the spread of viruses like influenza.  This is because children tend to be very susceptible to common human respiratory viruses.  They shed, or pass on, viruses at higher levels and for longer than adults, which makes them more likely to transmit the disease and typically have poorer hygiene habits than adults.	Thus, many schools within the United States and abroad have closed in response to COVID-19.  But, it's important to note that school closures are not guaranteed to reduce transmission.  Timing of the closure is very important.  Closures early in the epidemic are more likely to be effective, and they may be ineffective if children just gather in other locations.	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued a series of guidelines for schools to prepare for the coronavirus.  This includes making cleaning supplies readily available, encouraging students and staff to stay home if sick, planning for digital or distance learning, and considering school closures if necessary.	Are antibiotics effective in preventing or treating the COVID-19?	No.  According to the World Health Organization, antibiotics do not work against viruses.  They only work on bacterial infections.  COVID-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work.  Antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of COVID-19.  They should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection.	Are there therapies available to treat COVID-19?	Scientists are currently testing different types of antivirals that work against influenza, HIV, and even Ebola, to see if they are effective against COVID-19 virus.  Clinical trials with a drug called remdesivir began in February 2020.  An individual in the U.S who was treated with remdesivir saw improvement in his symptoms in one day.  In addition, there are clinical trials of other drugs, including favipiravir, ribavirin and galidesivir.  However, it is important to note that this treatment is highly experimental and scientists need more information to determine if it is widely effective against COVID-19 before administering it to the general population.	The Milken Institute is curating a resource that tracks COVID-19 treatments and vaccine progress.	Can a person test negative and later test positive for COVID-19?	Using the CDC-developed diagnostic test, a negative result means that the virus that causes COVID-19 was not found in the person's sample.  In the early stages of infection, it is possible the virus will not be detected.	For COVID-19, a negative test result for a sample collected while a person has symptoms likely means that the COVID-19 virus is not causing their current illness.	How are suspected COVID-19 cases confirmed?	People suspected of being infected by the COVID-19 virus will have respiratory samples (i.e mucus) taken by healthcare professionals that will then be analyzed by public health labs, hospital labs, or commercial labs like LabCorp or Quest.  Healthcare professionals will work with public health departments and the CDC to determine who needs to be tested.  The CDC advises that people who feel sick with fever or cough or have difficulty breathing, and who have been in close contact with a person known to have COVID-19, live in a community where COVID-19 is spreading, or have recently traveled from areas where COVID-19 has spread, should call their healthcare provider for further guidance.	How can I take care of myself at home?	f you have possible or confirmed COVID-19:	Stay home from work, school, and away from other public places.  If you must go out, avoid using any kind of public transportation, ridesharing, or taxis.	Monitor your symptoms carefully.  If your symptoms get worse, call your healthcare provider immediately.	Get rest and stay hydrated.	If you have a medical appointment, call the healthcare provider ahead of time and tell them that you have or may have COVID-19.	For medical emergencies, call 911 and notify the dispatch personnel that you have or may have COVID-19.	Cover your cough and sneezes.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.	As much as possible, stay in a specific room and away from other people in your home.  Also, you should use a separate bathroom, if available.  If you need to be around other people in or outside of the home, wear a facemask.	Avoid sharing personal items with other people in your household, like dishes, towels, and bedding.	Clean all surfaces that are touched often, like counters, tabletops, and doorknobs.  Use household cleaning sprays or wipes according to the label instructions.	If you develop emergency warning signs for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately.	This list is not all inclusive.  Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.	For any additional questions about your care, contact your healthcare provider or state or local health department.	The CDC provides additional guidance for what to do if you are sick, how to take care of yourself at home, and how to take care of others at home.	How do I know if I have the virus?	Symptoms can appear anywhere from 2-14 days after exposure.  Symptoms consist of fever, coughing, and shortness of breath.  If any of those symptoms occur, call your doctor to discuss next steps.	Also, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention launched a "self-checker" to help people make decisions about seeking appropriate medical care.	How do I treat the symptoms of someone who is sick at home?	Make sure the sick person drinks a lot of fluids to stay hydrated and rests at home.  Over-the-counter medicines may help with symptoms.  For most people, symptoms last a few days and get better after a week.	The CDC provides additional guidance for what to do if you are sick, how to take care of yourself at home, and how to take care of others at home.	How do antivirals work?	Antivirals are a class of medications used for treating viruses.  Viruses cannot reproduce on their own so to survive they seek out healthy cells in the human body and use these to make 'copies' of themselves.  Antivirals disrupt this process by preventing viruses from entering healthy cells, multiplying, or escaping infected cells.	How do vaccines work?	Vaccines work by imitating infection and stimulating a person's immune system to develop protections against a disease.  Sometimes getting a vaccine can lead to mild symptoms of the disease, such as a fever.  The CDC advises that such minor symptoms are normal and should be expected as the body builds immunity.  Different vaccines can work in different ways and each way has its advantages and disadvantages.  For example, some require just one dose and others may require multiple doses to be given.  Further, vaccines that work by giving people a weakened form of the virus, which for most people causes no more than mild, if any, illness, may not be suitable for people with weakened immune systems.  The CDC encourages people to talk with their doctor to decide what vaccinations are right for them.	How does a typical COVID-19 test work?	The tests generally take a sample from a patient and process it so that the virus's specific genetic signature can be detected.	How does the CDC COVID-19 test work?	CDC recommends collecting and testing a single upper respiratory swab from the nostril.  This sample is then processed.  Using a technique called real-time reverse transcriptase (RT)- polymerase chain reaction (PCR), the test can detect the COVID-19 virus RNA genome.  In practice, coronaviruses need to replicate a reasonable amount in order for there to be enough genetic material that can be used for the test.	If I get infected, when do symptoms appear?	Symptoms can appear between 2-14 days after exposure, though some people may not have any symptoms while still being contagious.  It's also important to consider whether you've been in contact with an infected person, as well as any symptoms you may be experiencing.  If you believe you've been infected and you are not in immediate danger, you should contact your doctor by phone.  If you are experiencing a medical emergency, call 911, and notify the dispatch personnel that you may have COVID-19.	Is it possible to test if someone had the virus but is cured now?	Serological tests (tests that look for antibodies specific to a bacteria or virus) are a common diagnostic for other infections and could be developed.  A serological test could tell you if you have a current infection or have been infected in the past.  Researchers in Singapore and China, and a company called EUROIMMUN, have claimed that they have developed a serological test to detect the presence of antibodies against the virus that causes COVID-19.  While the tests developed in Singapore and by EUROIMMUN still require validation and approval, researchers from China state that their test has been commercialized.	Is it possible to use convalescent serum -antibodies from those who have recovered from COVID-19 -to treat others?	This is a strategy that is currently being tested.  The concept of giving antibodies from one person to another to protect from disease is called passive immunization.  You may also hear about this in the context of convalescent serum; serum just refers to the part of the blood that has antibodies in it.	Is there a test for COVID-19?	Yes.  The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has developed a test that can diagnose the COVID-19 virus in the laboratory.  As of the evening of March 24, the total number of public health laboratories (PHL) that have completed verification and are offering testing is 92.  This includes one or more PHL in 50 states plus DC, Guam and Puerto Rico.	In addition, a number of hospital and commercial labs have developed their own tests.	Should I be tested for COVID-19?	If you develop symptoms such as fever, cough, and/or difficulty breathing, and have been in close contact with a person known to have COVID-19 or have recently traveled from an area with ongoing spread of COVID-19, stay home and call your healthcare provider.	Older patients and individuals who have severe underlying medical conditions or are immunocompromised should contact their healthcare provider early, even if their illness is mild.	If you have severe symptoms, such as persistent pain or pressure in the chest, new confusion or inability to arouse, or bluish lips of face, contact your healthcare provider or emergency room and seek care immediately.  Your doctor will determine if you have signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and whether you should be tested.	Should I take over-the-counter medication to reduce my fever if I think I have COVID-19?	Over-the-counter options for fever reducers include ibuprofen and acetaminophen.  The World Health Organization (WHO) has clarified that it does not recommend against the use of ibuprofen as a self-medication for treating fever or pain linked to COVID-19.  WHO is gathering more data before making a formal recommendation.	Patients who have been prescribed anti-inflammatory drugs should talk to their doctors or healthcare providers before changing any medications.	What are the symptoms of the virus?	The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, cough, and shortness of breath.  Symptoms appear between 2-14 days after exposure.  Common signs of infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.  Those experiencing these symptoms should isolate themselves at home for 14 days and call their doctor.  If the fever does not break or breathing difficulties worsen, more intense care may be required.  In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.	What happens when you get COVID-19 and it's bad enough that you need to be treated in the hospital?	Most hospital care involves management of conditions that happen as a result of a COVID-19 infection, for instance, pneumonia or severe respiratory distress.  Most treatment for these conditions includes respiratory support.  This support may be high-flow oxygen therapy, mechanical ventilation, or in rare cases organ support with a breathing tube inserted through the mouth or nose into the windpipe coupled with mechanical ventilation.	Therapies that specifically target the COVID-19 virus, such as antivirals, are in various stages of development and testing.  For one patient suffering from coronavirus in the US, doctors were granted compassionate use permission from the Food and Drug Administration to test an experimental drug outside of a clinical trial.  When the clinical trials are concluded, we'll learn whether the drug, remdesivir, is effective for the treatment of COVID-19 patients.	What would lead you to believe that someone is infected with COVID-19?	Identifying people who may be infected with COVID-19 virus relies on recognizing the symptoms that are caused by infection (fever, cough, shortness of breath), ruling out other causes for those symptoms, and determining how an individual may have been exposed to COVID-19 virus.	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention launched a "self-checker" to help people make decisions about seeking appropriate medical care.	When will a vaccine be developed?	Many organizations are working on developing a vaccine for the novel coronavirus.  Public health officials estimate that a safe and effective vaccine may be ready for the public in 12-18 months.  Efforts are also underway to develop antiviral treatments that could help those infected by the COVID-19 virus.	The Milken Institute is curating a resource that tracks COVID-19 treatments and vaccine progress.	Why will it take so long for a coronavirus vaccine to be ready?	Vaccine development takes a long time because there are many steps in the process.  Researchers must ensure the vaccine is safe and causes the correct immune response without causing other problems.  There are many stages of tests both in the lab and then clinical trials that must be completed before wide scale production can begin.  In the past, this process has taken years, but it is estimated that a COVID-19 virus vaccine will be ready in 12 to 18 months.	Are current estimates of cases accurate?	No.  It is estimated that official counts of infections underestimate the number of cases.  First, due to a failure to test more people whether due to a lack of availability of testing kits or due to government protocols, we do not have a full and accurate count.  Second, many infected people will display no or mild symptoms.  Third, even those with symptoms may not seek medical attention.  Finally, many healthcare systems do not have the means to count and report numbers of infections and some governments do not want to report the true numbers.  Whatever the reason, we know that there are more cases than are counted.	Work led by a researcher at Northeastern University estimated that as of Wednesday, January 29th, 31,200 people in Wuhan alone could have been infected, compared to the reported 2,261 confirmed cases.	Has anyone in the United States gotten infected?	Yes.  So far there have been thousands of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the U.S.	The Johns Hopkins University Center for Systems Science and Engineering, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and others are tracking cases of COVID-19 in the US.	How many people are currently infected?	For data on confirmed cases of COVID-19 novel coronavirus infection, visit the dashboard created and maintained by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University.	Is there a good example of country data?	South Korea has made testing many, many people in their country for COVID-19 a priority.  A dataset of COVID-19 cases in South Korea is available on Kaggle.	What is the fatality rate?	As of March 26, around 4.5% of reported COVID-19 cases (globally) had died.  The current mortality for known cases of COVID-19 is about 1.4% in South Korea and 0.6% in Germany, countries where there has been widespread testing.  For the most recent counts of confirmed COVID-19 cases, deaths, and recoveries, visit this dashboard.	Where is a good place to find a current death toll?	Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University.  Please note that it is widely known that all measures undercount the actual number of cases.	Where is a good place to find a map of coronavirus cases?	Coronavirus COVID-19 Global Cases by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering (CSSE) at Johns Hopkins University.  Please note that it is widely known that all measures undercount the actual number of cases.	Where is a good place to find data about coronavirus?	The Johns Hopkins University Center for Systems Science and Engineering created a dashboard for tracking the COVID-19 pandemic.  The World Health Organization is also tracking the COVID-19 pandemic with their dashboard.  South Korea has provided COVID-19 testing widely to their citizens, and a comprehensive dataset of COVID-19 cases in South Korea is available on Kaggle.	After arriving from a country with a level 3 travel health notice related to COVID-19, when can I return to work?	Currently, all travelers arriving from a country or region with widespread ongoing transmission of COVID-19 (Level 3 Travel Health Notice) should stay home for 14 days after their arrival.  At home, they are expected to monitor their health and practice social distancing.  To protect the health of others, these travelers should not to go to work, or school, or otherwise leave their home for any reason (other than seeking health care) for 14 days.	After returning from China, when can employees return to work?	Currently, anyone who enters the United States after being in China during the past 14 days will have some level of restrictions on their movements.	Travelers from Hubei Province will be quarantined and actively monitored in a location to be determined by public health authorities for up to 14 days.	Travelers from other parts of China who do not have any symptoms are being asked to monitor their health and practice social distancing for 14 days.	Social distancing means remaining out of:	Public places where close contact with others may occur (such as shopping centers, movie theaters, stadiums).	Workplaces (unless the person works in an office space that allows distancing from others).	Schools and other classroom settings.	Local public transportation (such as on a bus, subway, taxi, ride share, plane, ship) These restrictions are to be in effect for 14 days from the time the person was possibly exposed.	Are layovers included in CDC's recommendation to avoid nonessential travel?	Yes.  Airport layovers in international destinations with a level 3 travel health notice are included in CDC's recommendation to avoid nonessential travel.  If a layover is unavoidable, CDC recommends you not leave the airport.  Even if you don't leave the airport during your layover, you may still be subject to screening and monitoring when entering the United States.	A layover is anytime you exit a plane when traveling to your final destination.	Can CDC help me get a refund from my airline or cruise line?	Each company establishes its own refund policies, and CDC cannot intervene to get them to change their policies.  Some companies may base their policies on CDC's travel health notices.  The decision to post or change the level of a travel health notice is based on the best available science and takes into account numbers of cases, sustained spread, geographic spread of cases, risk to travelers, and other factors.	In some cases, trip cancellation insurance can protect your financial investment in a trip if you need to change your itinerary in the event of an international outbreak.	Can I travel to the United States with dogs or import dogs into the United States during the COVID-19 outbreak?	Please refer to CDC's requirements for bringing a dog to the United States.  The current requirements for rabies vaccination apply to dogs imported from China, a high-risk country for rabies.	How are travelers from China being screened when they enter the United States?	At this time, American citizens, lawful permanent residents, and family members (as specified in the Presidential Proclamation) who have been in China in the past 14 days will be allowed to enter the United States.  Those travelers will be directed to one of 11 US airports and will be screened for fever and symptoms and asked questions about their travel in China and exposure.  Those travelers will have some level of restriction on their movement depending on their health and travel history.	How are travelers from countries with a level 3 health notice being screened when they enter the United States?	At this time, American citizens, lawful permanent residents, and family members (as specified in the Presidential Proclamation) who have been in countries with widespread ongoing transmission (Level 3 Travel Health Notice) within 14 days prior to their arrival will be allowed to enter the United States.  Flights arriving from countries or regions with widespread ongoing transmission are being directed to certain airports in the United States.  At these airports, travelers may be screened for COVID-19 symptoms such as fever, cough or trouble breathing, and they may be asked questions about their travel and possible exposure to COVID-19.  Travelers without symptoms will be told to stay home, monitor their health, and practice social distancing.  Travelers with symptoms will be directed to receive additional screening and health care.	Is it safe to go on a cruise?	CDC recommends all travelers, particularly older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions defer all cruise ship travel worldwide.  Recent reports of COVID-19 on cruise ships highlight the risk of infection to cruise ship passengers and crew.  Like many other viruses, COVID-19 appears to spread more easily between people in close quarters aboard ships.	Should I cancel my trip because of the COVID-19 outbreak?	CDC provides recommendations for international travel, including guidance on when to consider postponing or canceling travel.  Most of the time, this guidance is provided through travel health notices and is based on the potential health risks associated with traveling to a certain destination.	Travel health notices are designated as Level 1, 2, or 3, depending on the situation in that destination.  (See below for what each level means).	Warning Level 3: CDC recommends travelers avoid all nonessential travel to these destinations.	Alert Level 2: CDC recommends older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions consider postponing nonessential travel.	Watch Level 1: CDC does not recommend canceling or postponing travel to destinations with, but it is important to take steps to prevent getting and spreading diseases during travel.	CDC also recommends all travelers, defer all cruise travel worldwide.  This is particularly important for older adults and people of any age with serious chronic medical conditions.	If you do travel, take the following steps to help reduce your chances of getting sick:	Avoid contact with sick people.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.  Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty.	It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.	Make sure you are up to date with your routine vaccinations, including measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine and the seasonal flu vaccine.	The COVID-19 pandemic is a rapidly evolving situation and CDC guidance is reviewed daily and updated frequently.	Should travelers wear facemasks?	CDC does not recommend that healthy travelers wear facemasks to protect themselves from COVID-19.  Wear a facemask only if you are sick and coughing or sneezing to help prevent the spread of respiratory viruses to others.  If you are well, it is more important to take these important steps to reduce your chances of getting sick:	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	To the extent possible, avoid touching high-touch surfaces in public places --elevator buttons, door handles, handrails, handshaking with people, etc.	Use a tissue or your sleeve to cover your hand or finger if you must touch something.	Wash your hands after touching surfaces in public places.	Clean AND disinfect frequently touched surfaces daily.  This includes tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets, and sinks.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.	If soap and water aren't available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.	What happens if there is a sick passenger on a flight?	Under current federal regulations, pilots must report all illnesses and deaths to CDC before arriving to a US destination.  According to CDC disease protocols, if a sick traveler is considered to be a public health risk, CDC works with local and state health departments and international public health agencies to contact passengers and crew exposed to that sick traveler.	Be sure to give the airline your current contact information when booking your ticket so you can be notified if you are exposed to a sick traveler on a flight.	What if I recently traveled to an area affected by COVID-19 and got sick?	If you were in a country with a COVID-19 outbreak and feel sick with fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, within 14 days after you left, you should Seek medical advice --Call ahead before you go to a doctor's office or emergency room.  Tell them about your recent travel and your symptoms.	Avoid contact with others.	Not travel on public transportation while sick.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.	Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds to avoid spreading the virus to others.	Wash your hands with soap and water immediately after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.	If soap and water are not readily available, you can use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%-- 95% alcohol.  Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.	What is the risk of getting COVID-19 on an airplane?	Because of how air circulates and is filtered on airplanes, most viruses and other germs do not spread easily on airplanes.  Although the risk of infection on an airplane is low, travelers should try to avoid contact with sick passengers and wash their hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or use hand sanitizer that contain 60%-- 95% alcohol.