	I am an undocumented Oregon resident.  Can I be tested for COVID-19 or seek medical treatment for COVID-19 and get coverage through the emergency-only coverage (CAWEM)?	Yes.  The Secretary of Health and Human Services has declared a State of Public Health Emergency for the United States due to the spread of novel coronavirus (COVID-19).	As a result, the Oregon Health Authority has determined that the Oregon Health Plan's (OHP) Citizen/Alien Waived Emergency Medical (CAWEM) benefit includes emergency services related to the coronavirus (COVID-19).  This coverage includes facility and professional services in emergency rooms and subsequent hospitalizations when deemed appropriate and necessary.  Therefore, you can be tested and receive treatment related to COVID-19.	Disclaimer: This is not legal advice.  Individuals who are concerned about whether and how receipt of public benefits might affect their immigration status should ask for help from an immigration attorney.	What is quarantine?  How is it used?	Quarantine means you stay away from other people for a time when you may become sick with an infection, even if you have no symptoms.	State and local public health staff recommend self-quarantine for many people who return from areas were COVID-19 is widespread in communities and for people who have been in close, prolonged contact with someone ill with COVID-19.  Public health works with these people to make a plan that keeps them, their families and the public safe.	This plan includes doing the following for the 14 days after the most recent exposure:	Checking one's temperature twice a day.	Avoiding places where many people gather, including stores, workplaces, and schools.	Staying off transportation like planes, trains, and buses.	Calling one's healthcare provider promptly if fever, cough, or trouble breathing develop.	I've been to an affected area within the last 14 days or I've had close contact with a person sick with COVID-19.  What should I do if I get a fever, cough or shortness of breath?	Call your local health department or healthcare provider.  They will help you decide if you need an appointment.  If so, they can help you plan a way to enter a clinic in a way that avoids potentially infecting others.	If you need urgent medical attention, call 9-1-1.  Tell the operator if you have recently been in an affected area or if you had recent contact with someone who is sick with COVID-19.	We have a traveler information flyer available in multiple languages.	What is OHA's guidance on traveling?  Going to hotels, cabins and lodges, etc?.	​As part of social distancing ,we urge Oregonians to stay home, except for travel related to essential activities that cannot be conducted remotely.	On March 23, Governor Kate Brown issued Executive Order 20-12, directing everyone in Oregon to stay at home to the maximum extent possible and adding to the list of businesses that will be temporarily closed to stem the spread of COVID-19 in Oregon.  The order is effective immediately, and remains in effect until ended by the Governor.  Visit the Governor's COVID-19 website for more information.	People don't need the state's approval to get a test, right?  Only if they're going to try and get a test through the State Lab?	​Correct.  Physicians who have hospitalized patients with viral pneumonia can submit that test online and don't need any approval from Public Health.  Submitting a form and answering the clinical questions is enough.	For clinicians ordering commercial tests in their office based on their clinical judgment, they do not need to contact Public Health.  We do not need to give them approval.  The provider will get the results to give to the patient and OHA will receive those results as well so we can assist in investigations.	What is a commercial laboratory test?	​A commercial laboratory test means a test done by a commercial lab like LabCorp and Quest.  There are national labs that support a lot of health systems, outpatient clinics and doctors' offices.	What if I feel like I've been exposed but don't need to see a healthcare provider or get tested?	If you think you have been exposed to COVID-19, and you get fever, cough or trouble breathing, stay away from other people, so you don't get them sick.  Consult with your doctor or a clinic by phone for instructions.	How long does it take to get test results?	Results are generally available within 3 to 4 days.  Your healthcare provider may ask you to isolate yourself during this time, to limit possible spread of the virus.	How much does the test cost?	​Most health insurers in Oregon have agreed to waive co-pays, co-insurance and deductibles for: Regular terms of insurance such as co-payments, co-insurance and deductibles will still apply for other parts of a visit to a healthcare provider.	For more information, contact your health insurer and visit the Department of Consumer and Business Services website at.	Those who are uninsured should apply for Oregon Health Plan (OHP) coverage, which fully covers the cost of getting tested for COVID-19 if they need it.  People can sign up here.	If people don't want to sign up for OHP, we encourage them to see a clinician through their county health clinic or through a federally qualified health clinic (FQHC).  You can find a list of FQHCs in Oregon here.	What is the difference between the roles of the Oregon State Public Health Laboratory and commercial laboratories?	​At this time, the role of OSPHL is to monitor geographic distribution and assess patients at high risk of infection or who might have exposed many others at high risk for serious disease.  As a low-volume laboratory, OSPHL also bridges the gap between emergence of novel infections, such as COVID-19, and availability of testing through commercial laboratories.  OSPHL also supports safety net clinics.	Commercial laboratories now offer expanded capacity for clinicians to order COVID-19 testing at their discretion.  In the coming days and weeks, local health systems will complete certification for their in-house laboratories and begin to offer COVID-19 testing, further expanding testing capacity.  Collecting specimens for commercial lab testing can be done in the outpatient setting.  This testing is based on clinical judgment and does not require public health approval.  Clinic administrators may need to contact commercial labs to establish testing protocols for their clinics.	How many tests are available?	​The actual number of tests on hand will vary.  OSHPL currently has the capacity to conduct 80 tests per day.  It may take more than one test per patient.  The capacity of private labs is at least in the thousands, on a national basis, and expanding rapidly.	How are test results tracked?	​The Oregon State Public Health Laboratory tracks the number of tests conducted within OSPHL and the results.  Private labs report positive test results to the ordering provider as well as to public health.	How are healthcare workers being protected?	Workers collecting samples must wear personal protective equipment, which may include gowns, gloves, eye protection and masks.  We are sharing guidance with healthcare workers and facilities to help them stay safe.	What if I test positive?	Your healthcare provider and public health staff will give you information about how to keep from spreading the virus to your family and friends.  You will need to isolate yourself from other people for as long as your healthcare provider instructs.  You will also need to avoid coughing on others and to wash your hands frequently, to protect them from infection.	If it's determined I need testing for COVID-19, what should I expect?	Testing for COVID-19 will likely involve your healthcare provider taking a sample on a swab through the nose.	Where can I get tested?	Contact your primary healthcare provider or a clinic.  They can determine whether you need testing.  Though hospitals may request lab testing for some high-risk patients, emergency rooms should not be considered a primary source for patient-requested testing.	Who should be tested?	Many people are interested in testing for COVID-19 out of concern for themselves and their loved ones.  If you have trouble breathing or feel very ill, contact your healthcare provider or, in case of emergency, call 911.	Healthcare providers may decide to have you first tested for other illnesses, like the flu, based on your possible exposure history and any other symptoms you might have.	Individuals who feel very ill should seek appropriate care.  If it is an emergency, call 911.  If it is not an emergency but you feel sick enough to need a medical appointment, call your doctor's office.  If you don't have a doctor, call 211 for a list of clinics near you.  If necessary, visit your local urgent care center.	Call before you go.  If you have flu-like symptoms or have reason to think you might have COVID-19, let your healthcare provider know before you visit.  This will help avoid exposing anyone else at the provider's facility.	Which labs can test for COVID-19?	​The Oregon State Public Health Laboratory (OSPHL) and commercial laboratories, such as LabCorp and Quest Diagnostics can currently test for COVID-19.  Some local health systems will be able to test soon.	What are Oregon's testing priorities for COVID-19?	To these ends, priorities for testing for COVID-19, either at the Oregon State Public Health Laboratory or at other laboratories, are: Symptomatic residents or inmates in long-term-care facilities, corrections and other high-risk congregate settings; and workers and staff in these facilities, and workers in critical infrastructure.	(We expect that healthcare and other employers will take responsibility for their own staff: that they do not work while sick; and if they have exposed others while ill with COVID-like symptoms, that testing will be arranged by the employer).	Persons hospitalized with otherwise unexplained, apparently viral, pneumonia; and unattended deaths.	Symptomatic individuals identified by local and tribal public health authorities who pose risk to vulnerable populations, should they prove to have COVID-19.	Limited testing of symptomatic outpatients, through our current "Sentinel Provider" surveillance system (for influenza-like illness).	We require Oregon laboratories, and ask out-of-state reference laboratories, to report both positive and negative test results, so that we can calculate percentage positive in various settings and among various demographic groups.	How can I keep myself from getting sick with COVID-19?	​There are simple steps you can take to protect yourself and your family from COVID-19 as well as influenza and other illnesses:	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid close contact with sick people or animals.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw it away.  If you don't have a tissue, cough into your elbow.	Clean and disinfect objects and surfaces that you frequently touch.	Avoid non-essential travel to regions listed in CDC travel advisories.	It is also important to keep your body resilient:	Eat a healthy diet.	Exercise.	Get plenty of rest.	Stay up-to-date on routine vaccines.  This includes the flu vaccine.  It is not too late to get a flu shot to protect yourself from the flu, which continues to cause illness in Oregon.	Quit smoking and vaping.  Initial research shows that people who smoke may be more likely to develop serious complications from COVID-19.  If you'd like to quit, free help is available at.	I feel well.  However, I recently visited an affected area or had contact with a person sick with COVID-19.  What's next?	Protect your family and your community by doing self-quarantine for the 14 days after your most recent exposure.  Please follow the plan described above under, "What is quarantine."	Are there any foods or restaurants I should avoid to protect myself?	​At this time there are no recommendations to avoid certain businesses, foods or restaurants.  If you avoid ethnic foods and restaurants it will not reduce your chances of exposure to COVID-19.  It also promotes stigma.  Stigma can negatively affect the mental health of those who experience it.  Lost business harms family's incomes as well.  Please continue to visit the businesses and restaurants as you normally do.	Staff who work with the public worry about COVID-19 and the common flu virus.  They would like to wear masks.  Should they?	There is no solid evidence that use of masks in the public setting reduces risk of exposure or infection to respiratory diseases like COVID-19.	It is unclear if there is any benefit for non-clinicians to wear masks to avoid exposure to respiratory illness.	In the healthcare setting, when masks are worn correctly and consistently by clinicians engaged in direct patient care, masks appear to be effective in reducing risk.	The following strategies can make a difference in decreasing spread of illness.  They are recommended because they work:	Wash hands.	Cover coughs and sneezes.	Stay home when sick.	Get the seasonal flu vaccine.	Should I use home remedies to address the outbreak?	​Soap and water, used properly, are extremely effective and may be the best tool we have to control COVID-19.	Don't try remedies suggested on social media.  Many are harmful.  Scientists are testing potential medications, but nothing is approved yet for COVID-19.	Don't self-medicate by ingesting hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine (unless you have a prescription), bleach, hydrogen peroxide, excess colloidal silver, excess vitamin D, anything purporting to be a COVID-19 medication (there isn't one).  Source: Oregon Poison Center.	Do:	Clean hands often.	Stay at least 6 feet from others.	Stay home except for essential trips (groceries, pharmacy).	Cough or sneeze into a tissue or elbow; toss tissue right away.	What is the best way to protect yourself if you have to drive a vehicle with passengers?	​Remind passengers of the need to "cover their cough."  If you need to transport someone with a cough illness, ask that they wear a mask.  Wipe down surfaces afterwards with an approved disinfectant.	Am I at greater risk for acquiring COVID-19 if I am HIV positive?	Read our FAQ about Coronavirus and HIV information and what we know so far.	The FAQ is also available in Spanish.	Where can I find more information for families and schools?	Visit OHA's main COVID-19 page and the Oregon Department of Education's COVID-19 page for more information.	Why aren't preschools and day care centers closed but schools are?	​With schools closing, many older students may be able to stay home while parents work; but the need for child care for younger children may increase.	Is it safe to go hiking?  Seems like a good idea to get exercise and good for mental health at this anxious time.	​It is safe to go hiking and it's important to find ways to get exercise and fresh air in a safe manner.  However, it is important to make sure that you are healthy before you go, and maintain six feet between you and any person who is not a member of your immediate household.	Is it safe to go hunting, fishing or wildlife viewing if we practice social distancing?	​It is safe to go hunting, fishing or wildlife viewing.  However, it is important to make sure that you are healthy before you go, and maintain six feet between you and any person who is not a member of your immediate household.	I am a Legal Permanent Resident applying to become a U.S naturalized citizen.  If I need to be tested for COVID-19 or seek medical treatment for COVID-19 and get coverage through the Oregon Health Plan (Medicaid) including emergency-only coverage (CAWEM), will this be counted against me under the federal "public charge" rule?  The term "public charge" or "public charge analysis" is used by immigration officials to decide whether a person can qualify for a visa, enter the United States, get lawful permanent resident status (i.e a green card), extend their stay, or change their status.	No.  The public charge rule does not apply to people who have already become a Legal Permanent Resident (green card holder) unless you have been absent from the United States for more than six months.	Disclaimer: This is not legal advice.  Individuals who are concerned about whether and how receipt of public benefits might affect their immigration status s hould ask for help from an immigration attorney.	I am an undocumented Oregon resident.  If I do need to be tested for COVID-19 or seek medical treatment for COVID-19 and get coverage through emergency-only coverage (CAWEM), will this be counted against me under the federal "public charge" rule?	​No.  The receipt of emergency Medicaid, such as CAWEM, cannot be counted under U.S Citizenship and Immigration Service's (USCIS) public charge rule.	Additionally, on March 13, 2020 USCIS issued an alert on its website stating that the agency will not consider testing, treatment, or preventative care (including vaccines, if a vaccine becomes available) related to COVID-19 as part of a public charge determination.  You should seek the medical treatment or preventive services you need to protect your health and the health of others.  This includes if your care is paid for in whole or in part by Medicaid, also known as the Oregon Health Plan.	Disclaimer: This is not legal advice.  Individuals who are concerned about whether and how receipt of public benefits might affect their immigration status should ask for help from an immigration attorney.	What will happen to me if I get sick after exposure to COVID-19?	​If a healthcare provider thinks you may have COVID-19, he or she will first determine if you are well enough to stay home or if you need to go to a clinic or hospital.  Healthcare providers may also work with local public health to arrange for testing for the virus.	Testing will likely involve:	A nose swab and throat swab.	A routine blood sample.	Coughing up mucus, if possible.	If you are seen in a clinic or hospital, your health care provider may ask you to:	Put on a mask to limit spread of the virus.	Make sure you are not around other people.	Care providers may:	Show you to a private room.  Put on equipment to protect themselves such as: gowns, gloves, eye protection, and s pecial masks.	There is no specific treatment for COVID-19.  The goal is to support the person who is ill, supply oxygen if needed, and help lessen the symptoms until the immune system kicks in and kills the virus.  Most people with COVID-19 appear to have mild disease that doesn't require a medical visit.	As with flu, most people can recover at home without problems.  Those with fever and cough who get significant trouble breathing, or feel faint, or parents of a child who gets bluish color of the skin around the mouth should call promptly and arrange for medical evaluation or call 911.	If you are tested for COVID-19, staff from your local health department will call you.  They will ask you for details about recent travel and people you have been around.  Your care providers and public health staff will give you information about how to keep from spreading the virus to your family and friends.	Can I still use public transit?	​Yes.  The state has been working with TriMet and other public transportation partners to increase their environmental cleaning and wiping down commonly touched surfaces.  While using public transit, where possible, try and maintain 6 feet separation from yourself and other passengers.	Can I catch the virus from a package or product shipped from an affected area?	​Currently, there is no evidence that COVID-19 can spread through contact with imported goods.  There have been no cases of COVID-19 in the United States associated with imported goods.	Other coronaviruses do not survive well on surfaces.  So, experts think the risk of spread from products or packages shipped over days or weeks is extremely low.  Coronaviruses spread most often by small droplets of mucus from the nose and throat.	What is COVID-19?	COVID-19 is an infection caused by a new coronavirus.  Coronaviruses are a group of viruses that can cause a range of symptoms.  Some usually cause mild illness.  Some, like this one, can also cause more severe symptoms.	What are the symptoms?	​COVID-19 infection often causes fever, cough, and some trouble breathing.  Some people have mild symptoms.  Other people can get quite sick.  Rarely, people die.	How is it spread?	​COVID-19 is spread when people touch or breathe in droplets made when ill people cough, sneeze or talk.  This can happen when someone is close to a sick person, within six feet.  Rarely, people might catch COVID-19 by touching a surface that a person with the infection coughed or sneezed on, and then touching their own mouth, nose or eyes.  Coronaviruses can't survive for long on surfaces, though, so this isn't common.	What is the difference between COVID-19 and influenza (the flu)?	​COVID-19 and influenza have similar symptoms.  Right now, influenza is still circulating in Oregon.  It is a much more likely cause of cough and fever than coronavirus.  The symptoms of novel coronavirus are similar to flu and other respiratory viral illnesses.  Symptoms can include fever, cough and shortness of breath.  Illness can range from mild to severe.	Should I wear a mask to protect myself?	​There is little evidence that masks limit exposure or decrease risk of illness when used in the public setting.  They might lead to a false sense of security and make people less likely to take other, more effective measures to decrease risk of infection.	Masks do appear to be useful when they are worn by people who are ill to limit the spread of virus when the ill person coughs or sneezes.	I have tested positive for a coronavirus.  Is this the same as COVID-19?	​There are several different kinds of coronaviruses.  Health centers can test for common coronaviruses when people come in with cough or cold-like symptoms.  They are not the same as the new coronavirus, COVID-19.	At this point, COVID-19 testing is recommended for people with symptoms consistent with COVID-19 who:	Have been in areas with community spread.	Have been in close, prolonged contact with someone known to have COVID-19.	Have serious illness requiring hospitalization that appears to be pneumonia caused by a virus, but no other cause can be identified.	Additional high priority people include:	​Those who live or work in a health care or long-term care facility, Those with potential exposure to large number of people at high risk for severe illness, for example in settings like health care, long-term care facilities, jail/prison or shelters.	A lot of people are upping their personal hygiene, but hand sanitizers and Lysol are sold out at stores.  Is the state working with manufacturers on restocking things like that, or is that something that the state does not do?	​There are shortages of lots of things like hand sanitizer due to a variety of factors.  The state has a stockpile that it can distribute to healthcare providers and other critical pieces of the healthcare system.  However, there are shortages that will continue and may become significant despite the efforts of the federal government to have private companies ramp up production.	That said, soap and water, used properly, are extremely effective and the best tool that we have.	What advice is there for the workplace?	​Encourage sick employees to stay home.	Health experts recommend that employees with symptoms of acute respiratory illness stay home.  Employees should not come to work if they have:	Fever (100.4° F [38° C] or greater using an oral thermometer).	Other symptoms like cough, vomiting, or diarrhea.	People should be without fever for 24 hours off of fever reducing medicines like aspirin or acetaminophen before returning to work or school.	Employees should inform their supervisor and stay home if they are sick.	Separate sick employees from other employees.	This is what CDC recommends.  Also, those with fever or acute respiratory illness symptoms should go home immediately:	Upon arrival to work, or During the day, if symptoms develop while at work.	Help your workplace stay healthy.	Emphasize that all employees should:	Stay home when sick, and make sure workplace policies allow sick leave so that people can do the right thing by protecting their co-workers.	Cover their coughs and sneezes.	Wash their hands frequently.	Perform regular cleaning of the workplace.  Make it a routine to clean all surfaces that people often touch.  Examples are workstations, countertops and doorknobs.  Use cleaning agents usually used in these areas and follow the directions on the label.	Know how to respond to employees after exposure or who are sick.	Employees who are well but who have a sick family member at home with COVID-19 should:	Tell their supervisor.	Refer to CDC guidance for how to conduct a risk assessment of their potential exposure.	Contact their local public health department.	If an employee develops COVID-19 infection, employers should:	Work with public health to determine which co-workers had close, prolonged contact with the ill employee that might put them at risk of exposure to COVID-19.	Maintain confidenti ality as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).	Employees who have exposure to a co-worker with confirmed COVID-19 should:	Refer to CDC guidance for how to conduct a risk assessment.	Contact their local public health department.	Review your outbreak response plans and make sure they are up to date.  If you do not have a plan, now is the time to develop one.  All outbreaks are reportable.  That includes those in the workplace.  Contact your local public health department if you believe you have an outbreak.  They will be able to guide you through how to respond.	Are there some animals that carry coronaviruses?	​Coronaviruses are common in several species of domestic and wild animals.  These include cattle, horses, dogs, cats, >ferrets, >camels, bats and others.	Coronaviruses can transfer from animals to humans although this is not common.  However, this has been the case with both SARS and MERS.	Where did COVID-19 from?	You may also know COVID-19 as:	2019 novel coronavirus, 2019-nCoV, or Coronavirus.	Those who study COVID-19 think that the virus that causes it originated in bats.	Two earlier coronavirus outbreaks appear to have started from viruses in a host animal.  For SARS, it was the masked palm civet.  For MERS, it was dromedary camels.	Is my pet at risk for COVID-19?	​There is one report of a dog that might have had a mild COVID-19 infection.  In any case, it is always a good idea to wash your hands with soap and water after contact with pets.	Is there a vaccine for COVID-19 for my pet?	​Currently, there are no COVID-19 vaccines for humans or animals.	Should my pet wear a face mask when in public?	​Pet nose and mouth masks may not prevent diseases that transfer by droplets spread through coughing and sneezing.  Vaccinate your pet for the most common vaccine-preventable diseases:	Bordetella, Parainfluenza, and Canine influenza.	These will help protect your pet from respiratory diseases.  Also, always keep your pets fully immunized.	If I get sick from COVID-19, can my pet catch it from me?	​Right now, we do not know if humans can transfer the disease to their pets.  Prevention is the key to keep your pet safe.  If you become ill with COVID-19, please wear a well-fitted mask to protect your family, friends, and pets.	What is a coronavirus?	Coronaviruses are a very large family of viruses.  Some coronaviruses cause cold-like illness in people.  Others cause illness in certain types of animals like cattle, camels and bats.  The virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) likely originated in an animal and spread to humans.	What is COVID-19?	COVID-19 is a disease cause by a new virus in the coronavirus family that had not been identified before.  The virus was first identified in Wuhan, China in late 2019.  Symptoms of COVID-19 include fever, cough and shortness of breath.  It can range from mild illness to severe illness and death.	How does COVID-19 spread?	Coronaviruses spread from an infected person to others through:	Am I at greater risk for acquiring COVID-19 if I am HIV positive?	Right now, we do not have enough information about COVID-19 to know whether people living with HIV are at higher risk of COVID-19 than people without HIV.	We do know that the two main risks for coronavirus infection are travel to an affected country and contact with a person diagnosed with COVID-19, especially close, prolonged contact.	Like other respiratory viruses, people living with HIV who have undetectable viral loads and CD4 counts above 200 are likely at the same risk of getting COVID-19 as anyone else in the population.  However, COVID-19 can be more serious among older people and people with underlying medical conditions, like heart disease, chronic lung disease, diabetes, high blood pressure or cancer.  In addition, people with lower CD4 counts (<200 cells/mL), may also experience more severe illness, like pneumonia that requires hospitalization.	If you have fever, cough or shortness of breath, contact your health care provider.  If you've traveled to an affected country in the last 14 days or you've had contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19, let them know so the clinic can be prepared to take good care of you.	How can I stay healthy?	You can protect yourself from acquiring COVID-19 by using simple measures, like regularly washing your hands and avoiding contact with sick people.  These measures help protect against other infections as well.	Wash your hands often with soap and water.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid contact with people who are sick.	Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue or sleeve when you sneeze or cough.	Stay home while you're sick.	You should also take your medications as prescribed, eat well, stay hydrated, exercise and get good sleep.  Also, if you haven't had your vaccinations for influenza and pneumonia, now is a great time to get them.	What does social distancing mean and how does that help to keep me healthy?	Social distancing is a strategy encouraged by Public Health officials to stop or slow down the spread of a contagious disease, such as COVID-19.  Social distancing measures include limiting large groups of people coming together, closing buildings and canceling events.  To help slow the transmission of COVID-19 in Oregon, Governor Kate Brown signed an executive order to temporarily limit the size of events, has closed schools and is encouraging people to stay a minimum of three feet from others when out and about, like going to the grocery store.  Governor Brown also advises individuals over 60 years of age or with an underlying health condition to avoid social and community gatherings.  Social distancing is a scientifically proven method to reduce opportunities for person-to-person transmission of COVID-19.  You may have already received notice that some of your regular group events and meetings have been canceled, rescheduled or conducted virtually.  This is a preventive measure to help keep the community healthy.	If I feel sick should I go to the clinic or emergency room?	There are no medications specifically approved for COVID-19.  Most people with mild illness will recover on their own by drinking plenty of fluids, resting, and taking pain and fever medications.  However, some people develop pneumonia and require medical care or hospitalization.	The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, cough and shortness of breath.	People also experience muscle and joint aches, headache and diarrhea.  If you have a fever, cough or shortness of breath, call your provider's office.  They will help you decide whether you should go into the office or go to the ER for an evaluation.  If you've traveled to an affected country in the last 14 days or you've had contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19, let your doctor know.  You may be asked to wear a mask when you arrive at your clinic or the ER.	I prefer not to travel to my pharmacy right now.	Can my medications be mailed to me?	Many pharmacies offer a service that mails your medications to your home.  Call your pharmacy to find out what options they can offer.	If you are on the CAREAssist program and want to receive your medications by mail, call the pharmacy below and a staff person will collect your information and work with your current pharmacy to transfer your prescriptions.	In order to have extra medications on hand, pick up medications as soon as you are able each month.  This is a good practice regardless of COVID-19.	Are HIV medications being used to treat COVID-19?	Currently, there is no approved treatment for COVID-19.  Scientists are studying a variety of medications, including HIV medications.  COVID-19 is not a direct relative of HIV and it is not yet known if any current HIV medications have any specific effect on COVID-19.  Some of the investigational drugs may have similar names to HIV medications.  Do not share HIV medications with anyone they are not prescribed to.	Only take your medications as prescribed by your medical provider.	Is there a risk of HIV medication shortage?	Pharmaceutical companies report no expected impact on HIV medication supply at this time.	What can I do to support my mental health during this time?	Fear and worry are normal feelings that people will experience during this time.  It is important to take care of yourself and others and seek help from your healthcare provider if stress reactions interfere with your daily activities.	Avoid excessive exposure to media coverage of COVID-19.  Take breaks from watching, reading or listening to news stories.  It can be upsetting to hear about the crisis and see images repeatedly.  Try to do some other activities you enjoy to return to your normal life.	Take care of your body.  Take deep breaths, stretch or meditate.  Try to eat healthy, well-balanced meals, exercise regularly, get plenty of sleep and avoid alcohol and drugs that may heighten anxiety or depression.	Connect with others.  Share your concerns and how you are feeling with a friend or family member.  Maintain healthy relationships.	Check in with your community (neighbors, friends, family, etc) if you are able.	Keep in contact with your community via phone calls, texts or social media if you are not able to leave the house.	Maintain a sense of hope and positive thinking.  Remember your resiliency.	I have more questions.  Who can help?	Stay informed about the situation in Oregon:or you can call 211 for general information.