	This page uses the official term COVID-19 to refer to the disease caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus.	Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses, some causing illness in people and others circulating among animals including camels, cats and bats.	There are several known coronaviruses that infect people and usually only cause mild respiratory disease, such as the common cold.  However, at least two previously identified coronaviruses have caused severe disease --severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV).  SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV have been ruled out as the cause of the current outbreak.	While originally thought to spread from animal to person, recently, there have been indications that person-to-person spread is occurring in China and affected countries.	The infectious period for this virus is unknown.  Based on other coronaviruses, people infected with 2019-nCOV should be considered to be contagious from the day of fever onset until 10 days after fever ends, or until appropriate laboratory testing shows the patient is no longer contagious.	Coronaviruses typically have an incubation period of 2-- 14 days after exposure.  The specific incubation period for this coronavirus is unknown.	Many rumors related to COVID-19 circulating on social media are false or contain misinformation.  People should be skeptical of rumors they hear on social media that aren't being reported by reputable health organizations or mainstream media outlets and should not share or repost items unless they are able to confirm that they are true.  False and inaccurate social media posts can cause a great deal of harm.	What are the most common symptoms of COVID-19?	The virus can cause mild, flu-like symptoms such as fever, cough, and difficulty breathing but can cause serious illnesses in some people who may have medical issues such as heart and lung disease or weakened immune systems.	Is COVID-19 more serious than influenza?	Because there is currently widespread influenza in the U.S, the risk of getting influenza is much greater for those in the U.S right now than the risk of novel coronavirus.  It is still recommended to get an influenza vaccine if you have not already done so.  The challenge with the new coronavirus is that we are continuing to learn more about the virus, such as how it spreads and how it can be contained.  Person-to-person spread has been confirmed in the U.S, but so far, there is not community-wide transmission and the number of people infected in the U.S is small.  COVID-19 is serious and public health officials are taking the possibility of widespread disease very seriously.	Are there any specific medicines to prevent or treat COVID-19?	Currently, there are no specific medicines or vaccines for the new virus, and antibiotics do not work either (they fight off bacteria).  Most people get better on their own.  Scientists are working to develop a vaccine, but this will have to be tested in trials first, so it could be some time before it is ready.	Should I wear a face mask?  Does wearing a face mask help prevent coronavirus?	For the general public, face masks are not recommended for protection from respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19.  Face masks help prevent further spread of infection from those who are sick to others around them.  You should only wear a face mask if a healthcare provider recommends it.  A face mask should be used by people who have COVID-19 and are showing symptoms.  This is to protect others from the risk of getting infected.  The use of face masks is also crucial for health workers and other people who are taking care of someone infected with COVID-19 in close settings (at home or in a healthcare facility, for example).	Who is most affected by COVID-19?	Generally, young children, elderly people and those with underlying conditions (e.g hypertension, heart disorders, diabetes, liver disorders, and respiratory disease) are likely to be more at risk of developing severe symptoms from respiratory illnesses.  As this is an emerging disease and there is only limited information available, we do not yet know which groups of people might be prone to more serious outcomes after COVID-19 infection.	How is the virus spread?	The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person.	Who is at risk for COVID-19?	Currently, you may be at risk if you have traveled to mainland China OR have been in close contact with a person who has COVID-19 within the past 14 days.  Mainland China does not include Hong Kong, Macau or Taiwan.	What does close contact mean?	Close contact means being within approximately 6 feet of a person who has COVID-19 for a lengthy period of time.  Close contact can occur while caring for, living with, visiting, or sharing a healthcare waiting area or room with a person who has COVID-19.  You may also be at risk if you have direct contact with infectious secretions of a person with COVID-19 (e.g, being coughed on).	Who is not considered at risk for becoming infected or spreading COVID-19?	The following people are not considered at risk for COVID-19: People who returned more than 14 days ago from areas where COVID-19 is active and do not have symptoms of coronavirus do not put others at risk.  Someone who has completed their quarantine or met the requirements to discontinue infection control measures does not pose a risk of spreading COVID-19.  People of Asian descent, including Chinese Americans, are not more likely to get coronavirus than anyone else.  Help fight fear by letting people know that being of Asian descent does not increase the chance of getting or spreading COVID-19.  Viruses cannot target people from specific populations, ethnicities, or racial backgrounds.  People who have not been in contact with a person who is a confirmed or suspected case are not at greater risk of acquiring and spreading this new virus than others.	What is social distancing?	Social distancing means staying away from mass gatherings (e.g, stadiums, theaters, shopping centers, schools, community events, church), avoiding local public transportation (e.g, bus, taxi, TRAX, ride share), and maintaining distance (approximately 6 feet) from others.  This is a strategy public health uses often for other respiratory diseases such as influenza.	Normally large gatherings of people --such as the families who greet returning missionaries for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints --need to adapt to the social distancing guidelines to limit exposure to COVID-19.	An unplanned gathering in the parking garage at Salt Lake City International Airport happened as 1,600 missionaries arrived on flights chartered by church officials on Sunday.  Despite directions by airport officials for one person to greet each missionary as they were announced, hundreds ended up crowding in the greeting area of the garage.  The gathering prompted reminders about the importance of social distancing from Gov Gary Herbert, Lt Gov Spencer Cox, and U.S Sen.  Mitt Romney.	While this gathering drew widespread attention, it underscored an ongoing problem in Utah and the country generally.  Photos showing crowded beaches and lines for bars in areas where virus numbers are climbing or places that already have restrictions in place are all over social media.	As cases begin to climb more rapidly in Utah, the single most important thing everyone can do is social distancing.  By remaining at least 6 feet away from other people, the spread of the virus can be slowed.  For anybody over the age of 60 or with underlying health conditions, it's best to simply stay away from other people.  If you are sick, stay home.	It's understandable to want to greet returning missionaries at any time, and even more so during this stressful time.  It's equally understandable to want to gather with other people in social settings.  But that moment of joy is not only dangerous to you, it's dangerous for everyone.	So please, maintain your space.	Can you get COVID-19 from animals?	There is no evidence that animals/pets such as dogs or cats can be infected with the new coronavirus and spread it to humans.  However, it is always a good idea to wash your hands with soap and water after contact with pets.  This protects you against various common bacteria such as E.coli and Salmonella that can pass between pets and humans.	What does isolation mean?	Isolation means separating ill persons who have an infectious disease from those who are healthy.  Isolation restricts the movement of ill persons to help stop the spread of certain diseases.  For example, hospitals use isolation for patients with infectious tuberculosis.	Who is being isolated?	Anyone with travel from an area where COVID-19 is widespread should isolate themselves in their home if feeling ill.  This includes staying home from work, school, and any other type of mass gathering except to seek medical care.  People experiencing respiratory symptoms should call their healthcare provider before seeking care.  This will enable healthcare workers to take additional precautions to prevent exposing others to disease.	What does quarantine mean?	Quarantine means separating a person or group of people who have been exposed to a contagious disease but have not developed illness (symptoms) from others who have not been exposed.  This helps prevent the possible spread of that disease.	What determines when a person will be quarantined for COVID-19?	Quarantine is usually established for the incubation period of the communicable disease, which is the span of time during which people have developed illness after exposure.  For COVID-19, the period of quarantine is 14 days from the last date of exposure, because 14 days is the longest incubation period seen for similar coronaviruses.	Is a person who has been released from quarantine still considered a risk?	No.  A person who has been released from COVID-19 quarantine is not considered at risk for spreading the virus to others because they have not developed illness during the incubation period.	What does "active monitoring" mean?	Active monitoring means that the state or local public health department will regularly contact a potentially exposed person to determine if the person develops fever, cough, or difficulty breathing.  Contact will be at least once daily and may be twice daily for some people, depending on their risk level.  Contact may include telephone calls, text, or email.	What happens if a person in active monitoring develops symptoms?	A person who is under active monitoring and develop symptoms should notify the local health department conducting the monitoring about their symptoms.  The person should also contact their healthcare provider immediately.  The healthcare provider will consult with the local health department and the Utah Department of Health to determine if testing is necessary and assess the need for further medical evaluation.	Who should be considered for testing for COVID-19?	Anyone who develops a fever and symptoms, such as cough or shortness of breath, within 14 days after travel from an area with widespread coronavirus illness OR had close contact with someone showing these symptoms who recently traveled from an area with widespread coronavirus illness may be at risk and may require testing.  Your healthcare provider will work with the Utah Department of Health and the CDC to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.	Is a person under active monitoring automatically tested for COVID-19?	No.  Whether a person is tested depends on the level of risk.  The Utah Department of Health will assess the risk of the person and consult with the CDC to determine the need for testing on a case-by-case basis.	What should I do if I come in contact with someone who came from an area with widespread coronavirus illness?	You are not at risk for getting COVID-19 just by coming in contact with a sick person returning from an area with widespread coronavirus illness.  If you have been in close contact with an ill person for a lengthy period of time, you should watch for symptoms and contact your healthcare provider immediately if you develop symptoms such as fever, cough, or difficulty breathing.	Are layovers included in CDC's recommendation to avoid non-essential travel?	Layovers at airports in destinations with level 3 travel notices are included in CDC's recommendation to avoid nonessential travel.  If a layover is unavoidable, CDC recommends that travelers not leave the airport.  Travelers with layovers may still be subject to screening and monitoring when entering the United States.	Should everyone traveling from high risk areas be quarantined?	Depending on your travel history, you will be asked to stay home for a period of 14 days from the time you left an area with widespread or ongoing community spread (Level 3 Travel Health Notice).  Click here to see Level 3 areas.	While the origin of this particular outbreak can be traced back to China, it is not associated with any particular race, nationality, or ethnicity.  Ostracizing anyone from our communities or excluding anyone from our places of public gathering based on their nationality is grossly inappropriate.	What about people on cruise ships?  How are they managed?	The CDC is working with the Department of State to assess the risk of all U.S residents on cruise ships, provided necessary medical care, and recommend quarantine if necessary.	Should I cancel my cruise?	The CDC recommends all travelers reconsider cruise ship voyages into or within the East Asia and the Asia-Pacific region.  More information can be found at.	If I get a package from an area with coronavirus and open it, will I get coronavirus?	People receiving packages from areas with coronavirus are not at risk of contracting COVID-19.  Coronaviruses do not survive long on objects, such as letters or packages.  These viruses are generally thought to be spread most often by respiratory droplets, such as coughing and sneezing.  There have not been any cases of COVID-19 in the U.S associated with imported goods.	What does COVID-19 mean?	This is the official name for the disease caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus.  The World Health Organization (WHO) recently renamed 2019-nCoV to COVID-19 using a combination of the words coronavirus (CO), virus (VI), and disease (D).  The number "19" is for the year the outbreak was first identified.  The name was chosen to avoid references to a specific geographical location, animal species or group of people to prevent stigma.	What does 2019-nCoV Mean?	This is short for the 2019 novel coronavirus.	If the risks are low for the average American, why is there so much attention about this new coronavirus?	While the immediate risks from the virus to the general American public is considered to be low, the potential public health threat is high, according to the CDC.  Extreme caution is important because so much remains unknown about this new virus.  For now, spreading awareness and keeping people updated as scientists learn more, screening people who might be at risk, and separating those who are infected from healthy people are the best tools public health can use.	Where can I find information about U.S and worldwide cases of COVID-19?	These guidelines provide information to help you monitor your health for 14 days, as you may have recently traveled to an area with COVID-19 or have been exposed to an ill person.  This does NOT mean you will get sick with COVID-19.	What are the signs and symptoms of COVID-19?	Common symptoms include fever (>100.4 F), cough, and shortness of breath.  Less common symptoms include sore throat and abdominal discomfort.  Many other illnesses can cause these symptoms, so development of these symptoms does not mean you have COVID-19.  However, you should follow-up with your local health department and healthcare provider.	Why are you being asked to monitor your temperature and symptoms for 14 days?	Monitoring your temperature and symptoms is important so you can be assessed quickly if you get sick.  Based on knowledge of other coronavirus infections, 14 days is the longest amount of time from when you may have been exposed to COVID-19 and when symptoms may begin.	What should you monitor during this time period?	Use the form provided to record your temperature and any symptoms you experience.	Instructions for monitoring temperature and symptoms: Take your temperature with a digital thermometer orally (by mouth) twice daily-- once in the morning and again in the evening, approximately 12 hours apart.  Record your temperature on the form twice daily, every day.	If you forget to take your temperature, take it as soon as you remember.  If you have any symptoms of COVID-19 listed on the form, mark them.  If you have a fever, or any symptoms listed on the form, call your local health department immediately.  If you are ill and need medical attention immediately, call your healthcare provider and let your healthcare provider know you are being monitored for COVID-19.	What is active monitoring vs self-monitoring?	Active monitoring means your local health department will contact you once daily, at a minimum, to check on you and ask about any symptoms you may be experiencing.  Self-monitoring means you will notify your local health department if you develop a fever or any symptoms listed on the form.	What should you do if you get sick while you are monitoring?	Do not go to a clinic or hospital without first speaking to your healthcare provider, local health department or the Utah Department of Health.  If you need medical evaluation, the healthcare facility and emergency medical services (EMS) should be notified before your arrival, if EMS/ambulance transport is indicated.  This will help coordinate your arrival and help the clinic and EMS make the necessary preparations to care for you in a safe way.	What is social distancing?	Social distancing means avoiding crowded places (such as shopping centers, movie theatres), avoiding mass gatherings, and maintaining distance (approximately 6 feet or 2 meters) from others, when possible.  Even if you are not sick or have symptoms, you should stay home from work, school, or church, and avoid going to public areas or using public transportation, during your monitoring period.  To keep your friends and family healthy, avoid having visitors or family members in your home who do not need to be there.  If you are unable to have food delivered to your home and you are asymptomatic, it is recommended that you go to the store during off hours to avoid larger crowds.	What to do if you are sick?	If you begin to feel sick and have been asked to isolate yourself by the health department, you should stay in your home unless you require medical care.  If you become sick and family members need to stay in the home or you have any visitors, you should wear a mask when in the same room as them.  If you cannot wear a mask, your family members and visitors should wear a mask when they are in the same room as you.	You can also protect your family and friends by following these measures:Cover your sneezes and coughs with a tissue or your elbow (not your hand). Wash your hands frequently with soap and water.  Your family and friends should also wash their hands often.  Do not share cups, dishes, or bedding with anyone.  Clean and disinfect areas every day that you might touch a lot, including counters, door handles or door knobs, toilets, phones, and bedside tables.  Wash your clothing, towels, and bedsheets often.  If circumstances arise calling for a more formal restriction, the Utah Department of Health or Local Health Department may issue an order of restriction for which you may give consent or it may be involuntary, ordering treatment, isolation or quarantine in accordance with Utah Code Title 26 Chapter 6b.	Who is the guidance for?	This document provides interim guidance for non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) during the outbreak of novel coronavirus disease 2019 (abbreviated "COVID-19") to ensure protection of the health and safety of Utah residents, staff and visitors.  Recommendations may need to be revised as more information becomes available.	Why is the guidance being issued?	Information provided is intended to help communities prevent the transmission of COVID-19 and to react quickly should a case be identified.  Closures of schools and businesses, cancellations of mass gatherings, and community isolation may all be useful for preventing the spread of COVID-19.  The guidance includes considerations to help policymakers and communities make decisions about how to best mitigate the effects of COVID-19 if there is community spread.  Data suggests that school closures and dismissals in the event of severe outbreaks or pandemics can reduce the spread of disease.  However, the burden experienced by the community can be great, so the decision to close schools must be weighed carefully.	Facilities subject to school closures include childcare facilities, K-12 schools, and colleges and universities.  A school dismissal means that students would be sent home, but facilities would be kept open and staff would be allowed to continue to work.  A school closure means that all students and staff would be sent home.  Coordinated school closures and dismissals can allow for time to assess transmissibility of the disease and to slow the spread in the early stages of circulation.  Strategies for social distancing in schools include the division of classes into smaller groups of students and spacing so that students are not seated closely.  Note: All Utah schools have been closed.	Proposed actions: Stay informed about the local COVID-19 situation.  Ensure that people know where to turn for reliable, up-to-date information.  Develop or review your emergency operations plan.  Review or update your emergency operations plan to include strategies to reduce the spread of disease and establish mechanisms for ongoing communication with staff, students, families, and the community.  This should be done in collaboration with local health departments and other relevant partners.  As of March 16, 2020, CDC has recommended that for the next 8 weeks, organizers cancel or postpone in-person events that consist of 50 people or more throughout the United States.  If individuals have symptoms of fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, direct them to stay home for 10 days or 72 hours after fever resolution, whichever is longer.  Perform routine environmental cleaning.  LEAs should maintain their routine cleaning and disinfection program.  Emphasize cleaning and disinfecting frequently touched objects and surfaces (e.g doorknobs, light switches, toilet handles, sink handles, countertops, desks).  Emphasize normally recommended actions to prevent the spread of disease.  Frequent hand washing with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom, before eating, and after they blow their nose.  Help young children do the same.  If hands are visibly dirty, use soap and water to clean hands.  If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer 60-- 95% alcohol.  Advising people to avoid touching their eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.  Covering coughs or sneezes with a tissue, then throwing the tissue in the trash and cleaning hands with soap and water or hand sanitizer.  Provide adequate supplies for good hygiene.  Clean and functional handwashing stations, soap, paper towels, and alcohol-based hand sanitizer.	If there is evidence of widespread transmission across Utah OR healthcare system compromise: Continue all strategies recommended for when community transmission is occurring.  Transition to statewide implementation of pandemic influenza NPIs and messaging.  Order closures of schools.  Order cancellation of various mass gathering, activities, and events at schools.	Maintain an open line of communication with corresponding Local Health Department leadership, including ensuring the local health officer has current contact information for the superintendent.  Create clear and concise plans to communicate accurate and timely information to the students, families, and communities you serve.  Note: Anyone who has had close contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case or has recently returned from a geographic area with a CDC Level 2 or 3 travel alert, will be asked to self-quarantine for 14 days from their last exposure.  They are not sick and do not have COVID-19, but out of an abundance of caution, public health recommends they stay at home and avoid large crowds.  There is no risk of COVID-19 to those who have come in contact with the quarantined student, and thus no need to take any special precautions.  Non-healthcare workplaces may need to limit exposure to infectious agents while still maintaining infrastructure for essential services.  Methods for supplying essential services and providing compensation for absence from work may need to be developed.  In addition, policies to provide incentives and not barriers to people staying home when sick, as well as policies to allow for employees to stay home to take care of children in the event of a school closure or illness can help mitigate the spread of disease.  The following items should be taken into consideration when considering business closures or alternate arrangements:Employees may be concerned about not getting paid or getting penalized for absenteeism.  Policy implementation may be difficult in businesses with high social contact.  Employers may need to increase capacity if they provide an essential service (e.g, food delivery). There may be decreases in productivity.Complacency may occur if the outbreak or pandemic lingers.	Proposed actions (in addition to the previously discussed social distancing methods): Improve environmental hygiene by conducting regular disinfecting of surfaces.  Improve web and mail services to limit traffic at public service locations.Prepare a Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) and identify Mission Essential Functions.Prepare for mass absenteeism.Consider closure of non-essential business services for two weeks after identification of community transmission, within a 5-mile radius of a cluster.If there is evidence of widespread transmission across Utah OR healthcare system compromise:Transition to statewide implementation of pandemic influenza NPIs and messaging.Large gatherings of people have the potential to introduce disease into a previously unaffected area, with affected individuals then carrying disease out into the community after leaving the event.  Events subject to cancellation include concerts, festivals, sporting events, worship services, and other congregations of people in public places (e.g, malls).  Public health should consider working with organizers and leaders for public events and only considering cancellation on a case-by-case basis if there is no evidence of widespread community transmission.  Some suggestions to mitigate the spread of disease are: Considering cancelling events when attendance includes persons from vulnerable populations.Adjust event layouts and schedules to reduce numbers of people congregating at the same time.  Encourage participants not to come if they are experiencing illness.  Provide symptom screening at entry if feasible.  Cancel events that would be attended by large numbers of people or those who are traveling.  Adjust cultural and religious practices to reduce interpersonal contact.Encourage immunocompromised individuals to refrain from attending.  If there is evidence of local community transmission as indicated by a cluster of COVID-19 cases: Consider closing local events and recommending that residents restrict travel outside of jurisdiction as much as possible.  If there is evidence of widespread transmission across Utah OR health care system compromise: Transition to statewide implementation of pandemic influenza NPIs and messaging.	As there is now evidence of local community transmission of COVID-19 in Utah and the virus is reported to have an incubation period of 2 to 14 days, the goal of mandatory isolation is to slow the acceleration of the number of cases in Utah, reduce the peak number of cases, and related health care demands on hospitals and infrastructure.	Individuals with symptoms of fever and cough or shortness of breath self-isolate for 10 days or 72 hours after fever resolution, whichever is longer.  If an individual is sick and their symptoms worsen, they should call their healthcare provider.	Close contacts of a confirmed COVID-19 case while they were sick (i.e, being within 6 feet of a sick person for 10 minutes or more, including within a household, intimate partner, or have been in direct contact with someone's respiratory secretions or droplets) should self-isolate for 14 days and monitor for symptoms.	Monitor for fever and other symptoms and if symptoms develop self-isolate and contact healthcare provider.  If symptoms develop, and have only mild illness and are otherwise healthy, self-isolate.  If there are underlying conditions individuals should contact their healthcare provider.	If symptoms develop, and have only mild illness and are otherwise healthy, self-isolate.	o If there are underlying conditions individuals should contact their healthcare provider.	Individuals who are more than 60 years old, immunocompromised, pregnant and/or have underlying medical conditions including chronic cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disease, diabetes, and renal disease, should avoid public places and large gatherings where there will be close contact with others.The public should avoid visits to healthcare settings (including long-term care facilities) as much as possible, unless required to receive appropriate medical care.  If symptomatic with a fever, cough, and shortness of breath, call healthcare providers before going to an office/hospital.	Avoid going to the hospital unless it is an emergency.  In addition, improve respiratory etiquette, hand hygiene, and environmental hygiene.	No ill visitors should be permitted to enter healthcare facilities.  It is strongly encouraged that healthcare facilities limit visitors and when permitting visitors, screen visitors for symptoms.	What is community spread?	In Utah, the first confirmed cases of COVID-19 were all in patients who had recently traveled to areas with widespread transmission of novel coronavirus or who had close contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19.  That all changed Saturday.	A resident of Summit County has a confirmed case of COVID-19 but no history of travel or known contact with a person confirmed to have COVID-19.  This is known as community spread.  This is the first case of community transmission in Utah.	Generally, limiting community spread depends on everybody taking precautionary measures.  That includes social distancing which means staying home when you are sick, practicing good hygiene to avoid sharing germs with others, limiting mass gatherings, etc.	Public health officials are still asking the public to avoid going to hospitals and clinics for COVID-19 testing if symptoms aren't present.  Instead, use telehealth or call your healthcare provider to find out if testing is necessary so that hospitals, clinics, and ERs and not overloaded.  Healthcare facilities report the high volume of visits from healthy people is affecting their ability to provide care for those truly in need.	The symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to what someone may be experiencing as the result of seasonal influenza --fever, cough, or shortness of breath.  These symptoms on their own are not worrisome and should not cause alarm.  But if someone exhibits these symptoms who has recently traveled to areas with ongoing transmission of COVID-19 or has been in close contact with a known positive case, you should self-isolate and call your healthcare provider by telephone or use telehealth to find out what to do next.	Utah officials have taken proactive steps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community over the past few days.  In particular, public schools have been dismissed for two weeks and any gathering that will have more than 100 healthy people.	In Summit County, health officials said the patient worked at the Spur Bar & Grill in Park City.  Health officials have interviewed the patient and believe the biggest potential risk is to his co-workers.  Anybody who visited the Spur since March 6 should monitor themselves for symptoms and call their medical provider or use telehealth if they feel sick.	Gov Gary Herbert, the Utah Coronavirus Task Force, and health officials are taking proactive steps to limit the spread of novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in Utah communities.  These actions are effective until March 30 and will be revised as the situation requires to keep Utahns safe and healthy.	Limit mass gatherings of more than 100 people if everyone in the group is healthy, including church.This includes gatherings such as church and religious services, concerts, conferences, and other events or places where large numbers of people gather together.	If you are immunocompromised or have underlying medical conditions which put you at an increased risk for severe symptoms of COVID-19, you should not attend any mass gatherings.	Stay home if you are sick.  We ask employers for leniency and tolerance for employees who are sick and need to stay home to help prevent the spread of this disease.If you are older than the age of 60 or are immunocompromised, you should limit your participation in groups of more than 20 at a time.Anyone who is immunocompromised or who has underlying medical conditions which puts them at an increased risk for severe symptoms for COVID-19 should avoid gatherings with 20 or more people.  This recommendation does not apply to businesses.	If you have recently traveled or been exposed to somebody who has tested positive for COVID-19 and experience symptoms such as fever, cough, or shortness of breath, you should seek immediate medical care.  Be sure to tell your doctor about your recent travel, and avoid contact with other people while you are sick.  Everyone can take steps to stop the spread of disease, such as: Avoid non-essential travel to China.  Avoid travel and contact with other people if you are sick.  Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your sleeve (not your hands) when coughing or sneezing.  Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available.  Avoid contact with sick people.  Business owners and employers may be concerned about how the novel coronavirus could impact their workplace, and employees may be concerned about stigma or discrimination.  Click here for recommended strategies to protect your workplace.	There are no specific treatments for illnesses caused by human coronaviruses.  Most people with common human coronavirus illness will recover without treatment.  However, you can do some things to relieve your symptoms: Take pain and fever medications (Caution: Do not give aspirin to children).  Use a room humidifier or take a hot shower to help ease a sore throat and cough.  If you are mildly sick: drink plenty of liquids, stay home, and rest.	If you can work from home, we are asking business leaders to implement teleworking as soon as possible.	Businesses should allow employees to telework immediately, if feasible.  We encourage business leaders to make teleworking available to as many employees as possible and expand what they may already be doing in this regard.	Long-term care facilities will have restricted or screened access.	Local health departments must protect our most vulnerable citizens.  We ask that local health departments work closely with long-term care facilities to restrict visitor access and monitor employees and visitors for symptoms of COVID-19.	All Utah Systems of Higher Education institutions are 'going digital.'  Campuses and campus services will remain open.  Labs will still be held.	Encourage social distancing and travel restrictions for students, employees, and staff.  Restrict nonessential travel for employees.  School-sponsored events and gatherings should be canceled.	Public and charter K-12 schools are dismissed for two weeks beginning March 16.	Schools will continue instruction online, where possible.  They will also continue to provide some basic services for students and parents who depend on schools for nutrition and safety, but they will not provide any daycare or in-person group activities.	The Utah Department of Health (UDOH) is actively monitoring the ongoing outbreak of novel (new) coronavirus (COVID-19) that began in China and has subsequently spread to several other countries, including the United States.  The UDOH is coordinating closely with public health partners and medical care providers throughout the state, and also with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  Though the CDC considers COVID-19 to be a serious public health concern based on current information, the immediate health risk to the general U.S public is considered low.  While there are currently no confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in Utah, we have investigated --and ruled out --several potential cases.  This is not to say we won't see confirmed cases in the future.  In fact, I expect Utah will eventually have confirmed cases, and I am confident we are prepared to handle those cases.  I recognize Utah schools and parents are likely concerned about the current situation.  To help address these concerns, I would like the share the following information on what you can do to protect your students, staff, and employees from COVID-19.  The symptoms of novel coronavirus are similar to what someone may be experiencing as the result of seasonal illnesses that routinely spread in the community around this time of year --namely a fever, cough, or shortness of breath.  These symptoms on their own are not worrisome and should not cause alarm.  However, if students or staff who recently traveled to mainland China exhibits these symptoms, please take the following actions: Limit the person's exposure to other people.Place the symptomatic individual in a room with door closed, if available.  Instruct the person or their guardian to contact their healthcare provider.  They should notify their healthcare provider of their symptoms and travel history before visiting their provider's office.  Public health will coordinate with the school to determine next steps.	There are currently no cases of COVID-19 in Utah, and there are no restrictions on public gatherings.  Students, staff, and employees should be reminded that part of good respiratory hygiene is staying home from school and events when they are sick.	Additionally, you should always encourage good hygiene among your students, staff, and employees, including regular hand washing and covering coughs and sneezes with a tissue or an elbow.  Special sanitizing processes beyond routine cleaning, including closing schools to clean every surface in the building are not necessary or recommended to slow the spread of respiratory illness.  Follow standard procedures for routine cleaning and disinfecting.	I have also enclosed a flyer you can print or copy and display in Utah schools.  While the origin of this particular outbreak can be traced back to China, it would be grossly inappropriate, not to mention medically ineffective, to ostracize anyone from our communities or exclude anyone from our places of public gathering based on their race, nationality, or ethnicity.  We can all contribute to a healthy community, and we appreciate your willingness to help protect the public health in Utah.	The Utah Department of Health (UDOH) is actively monitoring the ongoing outbreak of novel (new) coronavirus that began in China and has subsequently spread to several other countries, including the United States.  The UDOH is coordinating closely with public health partners and medical care providers throughout the state, and also with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).  Though the CDC considers novel coronavirus to be a serious public health concern based on current information, the immediate health risk to the general U.S public is considered low.  While there are currently no confirmed cases of novel coronavirus in Utah, we have investigated --and ruled out --several potential cases.  This is not to say we won't see confirmed cases in the future.  In fact, I expect Utah will eventually have confirmed cases, and I am confident we are prepared to handle those cases.	I recognize Utah employers may be concerned about the current situation, especially if you conduct business in mainland China or have employees or clients who have recently visited the area.  To help address your concerns, I would like the share the following information about what you can do to protect your workplace from novel coronavirus.  The symptoms of novel coronavirus are similar to seasonal illnesses that are routinely spread in the community around this time of year --namely a fever, cough, or shortness of breath.  On their own, these symptoms are not worrisome and should not cause alarm.  However, it is important for you to know if employees or clients may be at risk for contracting novel coronavirus.  Public health identifies people at-risk for novel coronavirus if: They have returned from travel to mainland China in the past 14 days, OR They had close contact with a person who has been confirmed positive with novel coronavirus.  Hong Kong, Macau, and Taiwan are not considered part of mainland China.  The UDOH receives daily reports from the CDC regarding residents who are returning to Utah from travel to mainland China.  Utah public health agencies work to contact these individuals within 24 hours of their arrival in the state and provide them with detailed information about steps they should take to protect themselves and others.  This system is not perfect, and you may learn about an at-risk employee or client before we do.	Public health may take any, or all, of the following steps to protect at-risk people and the general population: Quarantine or isolation of at-risk persons for 14 days after their last possible exposure to the virus (usually determined by the date they left mainland China). Guidance for self-assessment of symptoms, and information on what to do if the at-risk person needs to seek medical care.  Instructions to limit their exposure to public gathering places such as events, stores, churches, schools, etc.Public health officials will maintain contact with at-risk persons to assess the individual's likelihood of developing novel coronavirus.  We suggest you consider the following measures in the event one of your employees needs to be isolated or quarantined and monitored by public health due to their exposure to novel coronavirus:Provide options for social distancing in the workplace.  If you can keep at-risk individuals six feet away from other employees, it is safe for them to return to work.Provide options for at-risk employees to telecommute during their quarantine or isolation period.  If telecommuting options are not available, consider offering paid administrative leave.  Employees will be less likely to follow quarantine and isolation recommendations if they are required to use their own paid time off benefits.  Employees and clients should always be reminded of good hygiene practices such as regularly washing their hands, and covering their coughs and sneezes with their elbow or a tissue.  Employees who are sick should always be encouraged to stay home from work.  While the origin of this particular outbreak can be traced back to China, it would be grossly inappropriate, not to mention medically ineffective, to ostracize anyone from our communities or exclude anyone from our places of public gathering based on their race, nationality, or ethnicity.I have also enclosed a flyer you can print or copy and display in your workplace.We can all contribute to a healthy community, and we appreciate your willingness to help protect the public health in Utah.	Continue practicing the above guidance with the addition of the following: Suggest that individuals, particularly those at higher risk, limit recreational and other nonessential travel outside of the home for non-impacted counties.For individuals in impacted counties consider requiring suspension of non-essential travel outside of the home (i.e consider smaller geographic areas-neighborhoods). While a community is under community-wide self-isolation public spaces should be cleaned thoroughly following CDC guidelines.	Once there is evidence of widespread transmission across state and/or evidence of healthcare system compromise, continue practicing the above guidance with the addition of the following:Transition to statewide implementation of pandemic influenza NPIs and messaging.	Mandatory isolation, among other non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs), could have adverse outcomes and difficulties in implementation.  It is important to consider how systems, sometimes known as wraparound services, can be altered to better help the public manage these NPIs.  Mental and behavioral health services should be made available to community members if community-wide isolation occurs.  Isolation can have mental and emotional implications and past influenza pandemics have shown a need for these services.	Individuals with underlying conditions that require prescriptions or regular hospital-based care will need special accommodations during mandatory isolation.  During mandatory isolation, it will be difficult for the public to buy supplies and groceries.  Grocery delivery and/or curb-side pickup options should be considered, keeping in mind that those who are handling the groceries are negative for COVID-19.  Schools and childcare services could be canceled or begin to implement social distancing practices to help control transmission of COVID-19.  Schools should begin to consider distance-learning possibilities for their students and training teachers to provide that.  Closing schools will also take away free and/or reduced-cost lunches for students who qualify, which needs to be considered when discussing school closures.	Employers should begin to consider social distancing practices within their facilities and providing paid leave or teleworking opportunities for employees to undergo isolation, take care of their children, or take care of other dependents who are ill.  Public transportation services may need to be terminated to slow the spread of COVID-19.	As COVID-19 is reported to have an incubation period of 2 to 14 days, cessation measures for NPI should be applied flexibly and with their specific geographic context in mind.  Community-wide cessation of NPI arrangements could occur if at least one of the following requirements are met:New cases or influenza-like illness are not occurring or occurring at normal rates.New cases or influenza-like illness are occurring very infrequently.  40% of the population has contracted COVID-19 and it has spread throughout the community, NPI Arrangements have failed.  Research shows that the severity of COVID-19 has decreased.	The social/economic impact of NPI arrangements are worse than COVID-19 spread or outcomes.	At the individual level, a patient can be released from isolation if all the following requirements are met:The patient is free from fever without the use of fever-reducing medications.The patient is no longer showing symptoms, including cough.The patient has tested negative on at least two consecutive specimens collected at least 24 hours apart (2 nasopharyngeal and 2 throat swabs; 4 total negative specimens).	COVID-19: Coronavirus disease 2019; the disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.	Laboratory confirmed case: Individual with a positive RT-PCR result for SARS-CoV-2.  Clinically confirmed case: Individual showing COVID-19 symptoms.  Quarantine: Separation and restriction of movement of well persons who may have been exposed to SARS-CoV-2.	Mandatory self-isolation: Required separation of sick people with a contagious disease from people who are not sick; staying in a designated space in the facility, separate from other people in the facility, wear a mask when in a space with other people, cover coughs and sneezes, wash hands, avoid sharing common items, monitor symptoms, and call ahead before visiting a doctor.  Contact: Individual who has been in close contact (at least within 6 feet for over 10 minutes) with a case of COVID-19 who was symptomatic.  Community transmission: Infection with SARS-CoV-2 across an area, including some who are not sure how or where they became infected.  Self-isolation: Recommended separation of sick people with a contagious disease from people who are not ill (i.e, avoiding public spaces as much as possible, covering coughs and sneezes, washing hands, avoiding sharing common items, and monitoring symptoms and temperature.	Who is the guidance for?	This document provides interim guidance for food establishments during the outbreak of novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) to ensure the health and safety of employees and customers.  Recommendations may need to be revised as more information becomes available.	Why is the guidance being issued?	Information provided is intended to help food establishment managers and employees understand how to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 within food establishments and other locations that provide food services.	What is the role of food establishments during the COVID-19 outbreak?	On February 27, 2020, the U.S Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a Fact Statement informing the public that "FDA is not aware of any reports at this time of human illnesses that suggest COVID-19 can be transmitted by food or food packaging.  However, it is always important to follow good hygiene practices (i.e, wash hands and surfaces often, separate raw meat from other foods, cook to the right temperature, and refrigerate foods promptly) when handling or preparing foods."  The coronavirus that causes COVID-19 seems to be spreading easily via respiratory droplets produced when an infected person sneezes or coughs between people who are in close contact (within less than six feet).  In some affected areas of Utah, this virus has "community spread," meaning people who have not left the community have become infected with the virus without knowing how or where they became infected.	The Utah Department of Health (UDOH) recommends following the guidance issued on the FDA's FAQ page, USDA's website, and CDC's guidance on cleaning and disinfection.  Guidance on social distancing and the following items applies to both food delivery and food distribution.  Employees who are sick or showing respiratory symptoms should not work until symptom free for at least 24 hours.  Symptoms of COVID-19 include flu-like symptoms such as fever, cough, and difficulty breathing.  Employees exhibiting symptoms of food borne illnesses should also be excluded (vomiting, diarrhea).  Bare hand contact with ready-to-eat foods is prohibited.  Only individuals preparing food should be handling the food that is put into containers.Use a barrier like napkins or tissues when handling cards or cash; or wash hands regularly and use hand sanitizer between transactions.  Gloves may be used if changed regularly and hands are washed before putting gloves on and after taking them off.  Follow safe food handling requirements, including hand washing with warm, soapy water for at least 20 seconds.  Wash hands after using a bathroom, touching your face (such as rubbing eyes or blowing your nose), and after entering a food preparation area.  Take time to wash hands regularly.  Those who handle cash or cards, or otherwise engage customers, should not prepare food.  Normal sanitation practices, such as dishwashing utilizing an approved sanitizing cycle and proper use of sanitizing solutions with wiping cloths, are adequate at stopping the spread of germs.  Be sure to have test strips and maintain the proper concentration of sanitizer, as recommended on the label.  Routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces is recommended, such as countertops, rails, and doorknobs.Food should be served only on or in containers supplied by the food establishment.  Customer supplied containers should not be allowed on or in the premises of the food establishment.	Who is the guidance for?  This document provides interim guidance specific to older populations (60 years old and older) during the outbreak of novel coronavirus disease 2019 (abbreviated "COVID-19") to protect the health and safety of older people in our communities.  Recommendations may be revised as more information becomes available.	Why is the guidance being issued?  COVID-19 is a respiratory illness caused by a novel (new) virus, and we are learning more about it every day.  There is currently no vaccine to protect against COVID-19.  Early information out of China, where COVID-19 first started, shows that some people are at higher risk of getting very sick from this illness.	This includes older adults, as well as those with conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, lung disease, who also tend to be older adults.  At this point, the best way to prevent infection is to avoid being exposed to the virus that causes it.  Stopping spread (transmission) of the virus through everyday practices is the best way to keep yourself healthy.  If you are at higher risk for serious illness from COVID-19 because you are more than 60 years old or because you have a serious long-term health problem, it is very important for you to take actions to reduce your risk of getting sick with the disease.  Because Utah has recommended that those most at risk for COVID-19 avoid large crowds, mass events, and non-essential use of highly traveled public spaces, we want to support these populations by providing information about alternative measures for conducting everyday activities.  This document will cover how to make alternative arrangements for work and daily transportation (including journey to work), social and religious activities, healthcare needs, and any in-home care or services that you might receive.	Patients with COVID-19 may have mild to severe respiratory illness.  Symptoms can include fever, cough, and shortness of breath.  Symptoms may appear 2-- 14 days after exposure to the virus.  It is important to recognize that other respiratory diseases (e.g, common cold and influenza) may be circulating in the community at the same time as COVID-19.	If you are working, telework as much as possible and avoid taking public transport to work.  If your usual social functions are canceled, develop routines with friends, such as daily check-ins on the phone, or cooking, watching television and playing games together online or on Skype.  Find a way to watch church, synagogue, or other worship/prayer services on television or online.  For non-essential services (e.g, cleaning) that you receive at home, try to find an alternative.  For essential services that you get routinely at home, try to make any transactions (e.g, orders, payments, pickups) remotely (e.g, online), through a door, or outside.  Inquire with your health providers about telemedicine options and prescription delivery.	Although some older adults may be retired, many are part of the workforce.  Your continued attendance at work will depend on your personal history of travel or contact with individuals who have been diagnosed with COVID-19, as well as your employer's protocols during the outbreak.	CDC has recommended that all persons, and especially those over 60, have been advised to avoid non-essential travel to regions (e.g, China, Italy, Japan, Iran, South Korea and most of Europe) where there is sustained community transmission of COVID-19.  If you have recently traveled to one of these locations, your employer may require you to telework (if the job allows for telework) or place you on administrative leave while you comply with a required 14-day isolation requirement upon your return to the United States.  Similarly, you will also have to fulfill a 14-day isolation requirement if you know that you were in close contact with someone who had a confirmed case of COVID-19.  You may also opt to voluntarily isolate yourself regardless of potential exposure to COVID-19 because of your risk profile (e.g, age or a pre-existing chronic illness or respiratory issue).	When staying home from work: Management should allow you to telework if that is an option.  Telework as much as possible.  If teleworking is not an option, management may require you to use your own leave (annual, sick, comp, or excess time) or go on leave without pay.	If you have symptoms of COVID-19 (fever, cough and shortness of breath) and had significant risk exposure for COVID-19, stay home and consult via remote media health care providers (e.g, telehealth).  If you are diagnosed with COVID-19 during a 14-day or unspecified isolation period, contact your HR Director or HR Specialist who will evaluate the use of sick leave/FMLA as appropriate.  Follow instructions from your physician or the public health agency monitoring your care for the remainder of treatment.	If going to work: Avoid all contact with sick coworkers.  To the extent possible, avoid common spaces in the workplace and touching high-touch surfaces, such as, elevator buttons, door handles, handrails.  Avoid using handshakes to greet others.  Use a tissue or your sleeve to cover your hand or finger if you must touch something.  Keep a 6-foot distance between yourself and coworkers.  Clean and disinfect your workspace regularly, especially frequently touched surfaces --tables, doorknobs, light switches, handles, cell phones, keyboards, your computer mouse, and phones.  Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds regularly, especially after being in a public space.  If soap and water are not available, use a hand sanitizer that contains 60-- 95% alcohol.  Avoid touching your face, nose, and eyes.	Getting yourself to work or other functions: You should avoid public transportation, such as buses, Frontrunner (trains), TRAX (light rail systems), and Uber/Lyft/taxis (rideshares), as much as possible.  In addition, avoid all nonessential travel including plane trips, and especially avoid embarking on cruise ships.  All public forms of transportation pose some risk from aerosol and contact infections.  If you have your own vehicle and can drive, use that as your main source of transportation.  If you do not have your own vehicle, identify a friend or relative whom you can rely on to drive you or pick up and deliver supplies for you.  Make sure the friend or relative you have selected is not sick or has not recently traveled to areas where there is sustained community transmission of COVID-19.  If they do become sick, find someone else to transport you or deliver your supplies.	COVID-19 is likely to affect many of the places that facilitate worship, socializing, and other services, which may also be places that older populations patronize or even work in.  Businesses and facilities will be also likely be advised to send home sick employees, use enhanced sanitation procedures, and stay open (especially those that provide essential services to older and general populations), but could close in the event of sustained community or statewide transmission.  You may also voluntarily choose to stay away from certain places and gatherings to protect your health.  Older individuals who use regularly scheduled social or religious events or services for socializing and staying in touch with others may feel lonely or isolated as the COVID-19 outbreak continues.You may have to rely on family members and friends to get to and from certain activities.  When activities are cancelled, you may need to use technology (e.g, phone, Internet, television) wherever possible to engage in your activities or contact friends.	For church or religious services: As Utah has recommended cancelling group gatherings of more than 100 people, older individuals may want to seek out televised or online worship opportunities, even if services have not yet been cancelled for the place of worship that you normally attend.	For senior center-based or informal social activities: While community transmission of COVID-19 is occurring, you may have to find alternatives to the activities that you would normally do at a senior center (which may be closed) or that you would do in large groups.	Avoid social isolation: Try to set up a "buddy system" with one of your close friends for a daily check-in on the phone or an online system like Skype.  You can also use these online systems to do activities together such as cooking, watching your favorite television shows, or playing games such as Scrabble or card games.	Make use of senior center staff or resources that you know about: Your senior center's administrative staff may be on call to help you access other resources while the center is closed (also see the Resources section below).	Welfare checks: Consider contacting service providers such as postal delivery workers, community paramedics or neighborhood watch groups to check on the welfare of home-bound seniors.	For older individuals who are isolating voluntarily or due to symptoms, contacts, or travel, there may also be concerns surrounding the ongoing provision of in-home services or care.  Individuals who are well should take precautions when receiving at-home care or services to prevent infection and slow the spread of COVID-19.  Similarly, those who are experiencing symptoms should seek medical attention and should avoid contact with others.	Many older individuals need help accessing food/supplies if they are not able to shop for themselves.  Meals on Wheels, food banks or store deliveries may be the ways in which these individuals receive enough nutrition.  Similarly, those who use in-home support workers to cook, clean, or help them dress may want to take extra precautions.  Assistance from family members or neighbors may be necessary to bridge gaps in care or services.	If possible, try to replace your normal services with substitutes: If there are household functions that you can take care of on your own, especially if they involve cleaning of high-contact surfaces, try to do these yourself.	Ask a family member or neighbor if they can pick up groceries or help with household functions (e.g, taking out trash) that do not involve close contact.  For those who need more sustained or routine in-home care, you may want to consider staying with family members for a period while the COVID-19 outbreak continues.	When using at-home services: If you are getting a grocery delivery and meal delivery, arrange for the groceries or the meal to be left outside of your front or back door.	If someone is performing maintenance like a roof repair or checking meter readings, try to communicate from behind your door and provide payment online (if possible) or in an outdoor space like a mailbox.	Call any other service providers that come to your house regularly to see if they have COVID-19 symptoms (fever, cough, and shortness of breath), have traveled to a high-risk environment where community transmission is happening, or have been in close contact with someone who has a confirmed case of COVID-19.  They should not come to your house if they are ill or have been potentially exposed to COVID-19.	Meeting healthcare needs while staying away from public places is a challenge as many older individuals have regular physicians' appointments, prescription pickups, or health management activities such as exercise classes or physical therapy appointments.  There is also higher risk that individuals over the age of 60 years old will need emergency medical care.	As the COVID-19 outbreak continues: Older individuals should avoid going to any healthcare facilities when possible.  You will need to maintain access to essential medical requirements like prescription medicines.  It will be important to find alternatives for activities that maintain your health and fitness.  Non-urgent medical requirements such as checkups and physicals may need to be postponed.	Physician or medical care appointments: Call your healthcare provider to see if they provide telemedicine and check with your health insurance provider that telemedicine is a covered benefit.  If telemedicine is not an option, try to reschedule your regular medical appointments, if possible, and discuss any other options with your healthcare provider.	Consider bringing in a professional for a home assessment to identify needs or ways to make your home safer and more usable as the outbreak continues.  Avoid elective procedures.	If you become symptomatic (cough, fever, shortness of breath), contact your healthcare provider or call the Utah Department of Health hotline for advice on transportation and location of COVID-19 testing sites.  Otherwise, avoid all healthcare facilities unless it is an emergency.	Refilling prescriptions: Avoiding public spaces and healthcare facilities includes pharmacies.  Here are some options for getting your prescription( s) without putting yourself at risk: Talk to your healthcare and health insurance providers about receiving an additional 2-week to 1-month supply of your prescription( s).  Keep in mind that some health insurance providers may not cover advances on prescriptions.  Contact your healthcare and health insurance providers about mail order prescription options.  Medicare does cover mail order prescriptions.  Have someone you trust, a friend or relative, pick up your prescription( s) and deliver them to you.  Make sure the friend or relative you have selected is not sick or has not recently traveled to area that have community transmission of COVID-19.  If they do become sick, find someone else to pick up your prescription( s).	Work with medical providers or local aging services agencies to ensure that medications can be delivered to your home.  If you need oxygen, reach out to your supplier to arrange for refills or deliveries.	Health management: If you have physical therapy appointments, ask your provider if you can have a videoconference-based appointment to do any exercises that can be performed in-home.	Seek out alternative opportunities to stay well such as walking outside.  Mental health visits conducted by social workers, therapists, psychiatrist or psychologists should be conducted by phone or over videoconference.  Try to postpone or cancel massage therapy appointments.  Contact your various providers to discuss your options for health management.	Emergency medical care: In the event of an emergency, please call 911 or go to your local emergency room.  Health care systems in Utah have been advised to take enhanced precautions while providing care for older populations during the COVID-19 outbreak.	If you have symptoms of COVID-19, such as fever, cough, and shortness of breath: Call your health provider in advance of your arrival so that they can take proper precautions and prepare for testing if necessary.