	Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a respiratory illness caused by a novel (new) coronavirus designated SARS-CoV-2.  The current outbreak of COVID-19 originated in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China in December 2019.  Since then, tens of thousands of confirmed cases have been reported, predominantly in China but in a rapidly growing number of countries worldwide.  While most COVID-19 cases outside of China have been associated with travel to or from China, community spread is being detected in a growing number of countries.  This is a rapidly evolving situation, so information and recommendations may change.  We will continue to learn more in the coming days and share new information as it is available.	How is COVID-19 spread?	COVID-19 is a new disease and we are still learning how it spreads, the severity of illness it causes, and to what extent it may spread in the United States.	Person-to-person spread The virus is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person.	Between people who are in close contact with one another (within about 6 feet).	Through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes.	These droplets can land in the mouths or noses of people who are nearby or possibly be inhaled into the lungs.	People are thought to be most contagious when they are most symptomatic (the sickest).	Some spread might be possible before people show symptoms; there have been reports of this occurring with this new coronavirus, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	Spread from contact with contaminated surfaces or objects It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	Visit the CDC's website to read more about how COVID-19 spreads.	What are symptoms of COVID-19?	Reported illnesses have ranged from mild symptoms to severe illness and death for confirmed coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases.	Call your doctor if you develop symptoms, and have been in close contact with a person known to have COVID-19 or have recently traveled from an area with widespread or ongoing community spread of COVID-19.	Visit the CDC's website to read more about COVID-19 symptoms.	Where can I find treatment for COVID-19?	There is currently no vaccine to prevent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).  The best way to prevent illness is to avoid being exposed to this virus.  However, as a reminder, CDC always recommends everyday preventive actions to help prevent the spread of respiratory diseases, including:	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.	Follow CDC's recommendations for using a facemask.	CDC does not recommend that people who are well wear a facemask to protect themselves from respiratory diseases, including COVID-19.	Facemasks should be used by people who show symptoms of COVID-19 to help prevent the spread of the disease to others.  The use of facemasks is also crucial for health workers and people who are taking care of someone in close settings (at home or in a health care facility).	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.	If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.  Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.	Visit the CDC's website for more prevention and treatment information.	If I think I am sick, who should I contact?	Stay home except to get medical care: People who are mildly ill with COVID-19 are able to isolate at home during their illness.  You should restrict activities outside your home, except for getting medical care.	Call your doctor: If you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 and develop a fever and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or difficulty breathing, call your healthcare provider immediately and tell them that you may have COVID-19.	Wear a facemask when sick: Put on a facemask before you enter the facility.  These steps will help the healthcare provider's office to keep other people in the office or waiting room from getting infected or exposed.	Alert health department: Ask your healthcare provider to call the local or state health department (see a list of local health departments here).  Persons who are placed under active monitoring or facilitated self-monitoring should follow instructions provided by their local health department or occupational health professionals, as appropriate.	Call 911 if you have a medical emergency: If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you have, or are being evaluated for COVID-19.  If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive.	Read CDC's suggestions for preventing the spread of COVID-19.	How can I protect myself from COVID-19?	Take everyday preventive actions to stay healthy.	Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	Follow public health advice regarding school closures, avoiding crowds and other social distancing measures.	Stay informed.  CDC's COVID-19 Situation Summary will be updated regularly as information becomes available.	Should I still travel?	CDC provides recommendations on postponing or canceling travel.  These are called travel notices and are based on assessment of the potential health risks involved with traveling to a certain area.  A list of destinations with travel notices is available at.	Warning Level 3: CDC recommends travelers avoid all nonessential travel to destinations with level 3 travel notices because of the risk of getting COVID-19.	Alert Level 2: Because COVID-19 can be more serious in older adults and those with chronic medical conditions, people in these groups should talk to a healthcare provider and consider postponing travel to destinations with level 2 travel notices.	Watch Level 1: CDC does not recommend canceling or postponing travel to destinations with level 1 travel notices because the risk of COVID-19 is thought to be low.  If you travel, take the following routine precautions:	Avoid contact with sick people.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth with unwashed hands.	Clean your hands often by washing them with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains 60%-- 95% alcohol.  Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty.	It is especially important to clean hands after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.