	As a family, you can plan and make decisions now that will protect you and your family during a COVID-19 outbreak.		Ask your neighbors what their plan includes.	Create a list of local organizations you and your household can contact in case you need access to information, healthcare services, support, and resources.	Create an emergency contact list including family, friends, neighbors, carpool drivers, healthcare providers, teachers, employers, the local public health department, and other community resources.	Consider members of the household that may be at greater risk such as older adults and people with severe chronic illnesses.	Choose a room in your house that can be used to separate sick household members from others.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.		Be prepared if your child's school or childcare facility is temporarily dismissed or for potential changes at your workplace.	Stay home and speak to your healthcare provider if you develop any of these symptoms:	*This list is not all inclusive.  Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.	Take additional precautions for those at higher risk, particularly older adults and those who have severe underlying health conditions.		Make sure you have access to several weeks of medications and supplies in case you need to stay home 	When you go out in public, keep away from others who are sick and limit close contact with others 																																																																																																																																																																																	