																							You can protect yourself and your students by practicing and promoting healthy habits during the school year.  Use this checklist to plan and take action if a COVID-19 outbreak occurs in your community.				If your student gets sick at school, keep the sick student away from well students until picked up.  Encourage your student to stay home if they are sick with any illness.			Follow CDC's guidance for cleaning and disinfecting community facilities, such as schools.			Let administrators know if you see a large increase in absenteeism.								Seek guidance from your school administrator to determine when students and staff should return to schools 	Duration of school dismissals will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the most up-to-date information about COVID-19 and the specific situation in your community.  Students and staff should be prepared for durations that could last several days.  Administrators should work with their local health authorities to determine duration of dismissals.		You can help protect your family from COVID-19 by practicing and promoting everyday healthy habits.  If an outbreak occurs in your community, your school may dismiss students to prevent further spread of the virus.  Use this checklist to plan and take action if a COVID-19 outbreak occurs in your community.				Avoid close contact with people who are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.  If soap and water are not readily available, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.			If your child is sick, keep them at home and contact your healthcare provider.  Talk with teachers about classroom assignments and activities they can do from home to keep up with their schoolwork.			Talk with your employer about sick leave and telework options in case you need to stay home with your child.  Consider planning for alternate child care arrangements.				Read or watch local media sources that report school dismissals or stay in touch with your school.				Discourage children and teens from gathering in other public places while school is dismissed to help slow the spread of COVID-19 in the community 		Seek guidance from your school administrator to determine when students and staff should return to schools 	Duration of school dismissals will be made on a case-by-case basis based on the most up-to-date information about COVID-19 and the specific situation in your community.  Students and staff should be prepared for durations that could last several days.  Administrators should work with their local health authorities to determine duration of dismissals.																																																																																																																																																																																																															