																			When there is no spread of COVID-19 in the community:	Encourage staff and attendees to stay home if sick.	Develop flexible refund policies for attendees.	Provide supplies that can be used to help prevent the spread of germs.	Consult local public health officials about your event.	Review considerations on when to cancel an event.	If there is minimal or moderate spread in your community:	Cancel events for groups of 250 people or more.	UPDATE: The President's Coronavirus Guidelines for America --Slow the Spread of Coronavirus:			For organizations that serve people who are at higher risk of serious COVID-19 illness, cancel events for groups of 10 people or more.	If there is substantial spread in your community:	Cancel events of any size.	If there is a case of COVID-19 at your event:	Separate anyone who has COVID-19 symptoms from others until they can go home.		Contact local public health officials.	Communicate with staff and attendees about possible exposure.	Clean and disinfect the event space.		Encourage your staff or community members to protect their personal health.	Post the signs and symptoms of COVID-19:	fever, cough, shortness of breath.	Encourage people to stay home when sick.	Clean surfaces that are frequently touched --things such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, electronics, and doorknobs.	Limit events and meetings that require close contact.	Stay up to date on developments in your community.	Create an emergency plan for possible outbreak.	Assess if community members are at higher risk and plan accordingly.		Send home or separate anyone who becomes sick.	If you identify a case, inform people who might have been exposed.	Continue to safely clean and disinfect the person's area.	Connect with your local health department.	Cancel large meetings or events.	Put your infectious disease outbreak plan into action.																																																																																																																																																																																																																								