	If you have possible or confirmed COVID-19:	Stay home from work, school, and away from other public places.  If you must go out, avoid using any kind of public transportation, ridesharing, or taxis.	Monitor your symptoms carefully.  If your symptoms get worse, call your healthcare provider immediately.	Get rest and stay hydrated.	If you have a medical appointment, call the healthcare provider ahead of time and tell them that you have or may have COVID-19.	For medical emergencies, call 911 and notify the dispatch personnel that you have or may have COVID-19.	If you develop emergency warning signs for COVID-19 get medical attention immediately.  Emergency warning signs include*:	*This list is not all inclusive.  Please consult your medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.	Cover your cough and sneezes.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.	As much as possible, stay in a specific room and away from other people in your home.  Also, you should use a separate bathroom, if available.  If you need to be around other people in or outside of the home, wear a facemask.	Clean all surfaces that are touched often, like counters, tabletops, and doorknobs.  Use household cleaning sprays or wipes according to the label instructions.	For any additional questions about your care, contact your healthcare provider or state or local health department.	There is no specific antiviral treatment recommended for COVID-19.  People with COVID-19 should receive supportive care to help relieve symptoms.  For severe cases, treatment should include care to support vital organ functions.	People who think they may have been exposed to COVID-19 should contact their healthcare provider immediately.	See Interim Guidance for Healthcare Professionals for information on persons under investigation.