	Clean surfaces using soap and water.  Practice routine cleaning of frequently touched surfaces.	High touch surfaces include:	Tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets, sinks, etc.	Clean the area or item with soap and water or another detergent if it is dirty.  Then, use a household disinfectant.	Recommend use of EPA-registered household disinfectant.	Follow the instructions on the label to ensure safe and effective use of the product.	Many products recommend:	)Precautions such as wearing gloves and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product.	Diluted household bleach solutions may also be used if appropriate for the surface.  Check to ensure the product is not past its expiration date.  Unexpired household bleach will be effective against coronaviruses when properly diluted.	Follow manufacturer's instructions for application and proper ventilation.  Never mix household bleach with ammonia or any other cleanser.	Leave solution on the surface for at least 1 minute To make a bleach solution, mix:	Clean the surface using soap and water or with cleaners appropriate for use on these surfaces.	Launder items )according to the manufacturer's instructions.Use the warmest appropriate water setting and dry items completely.	Disinfect with an EPA-registered household disinfectant.  These disinfectants meet EPA's criteria for use against COVID-19.	For electronics, such as tablets, touch screens, keyboards, and remote controls.	If no guidance, use alcohol-based wipes or sprays containing at least 70% alcohol.  Dry surface thoroughly.	Launder items according to the manufacturer's instructions.  Use the warmest appropriate water setting and dry items completely.	Wear disposable gloves when handling dirty laundry from a person who is sick.	Dirty laundry from a person who is sick can be washed with other people's items.	Do not shake dirty laundry.	Clean and disinfect clothes hampers according to guidance above for surfaces.	Remove gloves, and wash hands right away.	Wash your hands often with soap and water for 20 seconds.	Always wash immediately after removing gloves and after contact with a person who is sick.	Hand sanitizer: If soap and water are not readily available and hands are not visibly dirty, use a hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.  However, if hands are visibly dirty, always wash hands with soap and water.	Additional key times to clean hands include:	)Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	)The person who is sick should stay separated from other people in the home.	)If you have a separate bedroom and bathroom: Only clean the area around the person who is sick when needed, such as when the area is soiled.  This will help limit your contact with the person who is sick.	Caregivers can provide personal cleaning supplies to the person who is sick.  )Supplies include tissues, paper towels, cleaners, and EPA-registered disinfectants.  If they feel up to it, the person who is sick can clean their own space.	If shared bathroom: The person who is sick should clean and disinfect after each use.  If this is not possible, the caregiver should wait as long as possible before cleaning and disinfecting.	See precautions for household members and caregivers for more information.	Stay separated: The person who is sick should eat )in their room if possible.	Wash dishes and utensils using gloves and hot water: Handle any used dishes, cups/glasses, or silverware with gloves.  Wash them with soap and hot water or in a dishwasher.	Clean hands after taking off gloves or handling used items.	Dedicated, lined trash can: If possible, dedicate a lined trash can for the person who is sick.  Use gloves when removing garbage bags, and handling and disposing of trash.  Wash hands afterwards.