COVID-19 is a new illness that can affect your lungs and airways. It's caused by a virus called coronavirus.

Everyone must stay at home to help stop the spread of coronavirus.

This includes people of all ages – even if you do not have any symptoms or other health conditions.

To protect others, do not go to places like a GP surgery, pharmacy or hospital. Stay at home.

Use the 111 online coronavirus service to find out what to do.

If you need medical help not related to coronavirus, do not go to places like a GP surgery, pharmacy or hospital.

For health information and advice, use the NHS website or check your GP surgery website.
For urgent medical help, use the NHS 111 online service. Only call 111 if you're unable to get help online.
For life-threatening emergencies, call 999 for an ambulance.

Read more advice about getting medical help at home.

If you're at high risk of getting seriously ill from coronavirus, there are extra things you should do to avoid catching it.

Read the full advice on protecting yourself if you're at high risk from coronavirus on GOV.UK.

If you're at high risk, you will be contacted by the NHS by Sunday 29 March 2020. Do not contact your GP or healthcare team at this stage – wait to be contacted.

Because it's a new illness, we do not know exactly how coronavirus spreads from person to person.

Similar viruses are spread in cough droplets.

It's very unlikely it can be spread through things like packages or food.

If you're pregnant and worried about coronavirus, you can get advice about coronavirus and pregnancy from the Royal College of Obstretricians and Gynaecologists.

There is currently no specific treatment for coronavirus.

Antibiotics do not help, as they do not work against viruses.

Treatment aims to relieve the symptoms while your body fights the illness.

You'll need to stay in isolation, away from other people, until you have recovered.

If you live with someone who has symptoms of coronavirus, you can get an isolation note to send to your employer as proof you need to stay off work.

You do not need to get a note from a GP.

If you have symptoms of coronavirus and need to stay at home, use the 111 coronavirus service to get an isolation note.