	People who have travelled from a country or region that is at high or moderate risk for COVID-19 should monitor their health closely.  If you develop symptoms including a fever and cough you should isolate yourself immediately and urgently seek medical attention.  Go to for the list of at-risk countries.	People who think they may have been in close contact with a confirmed case of coronavirus, should also monitor their health and seek urgent medical attention.	This information sheet should be read in conjunction with the 'What you need to know' and 'Isolation guidance' information sheets at 	Who needs to isolate?	Specific requirements are in place for people who have travelled from a country or region that is at high or moderate risk for COVID-19, or think may they have been in close contact with a confirmed case of coronavirus.  Go to for the list of at-risk countries and isolation requirements.	How do I isolate in a hotel?	If you need to isolate, you should inform hotel management, who will advise you about where in the hotel you may stay.  You will not be able to engage with other guests or receive visitors.  Hotel staff will be able to bring you food and other supplies you may require.	Hotel staff may supply you with a surgical mask to wear while they are in your room with you.  While you are alone, there is no need to wear a mask.  If you need to leave the hotel, such as to seek medical care, wear a mask.	If you need to isolate, it is important that you do not use hotel facilities, such as restaurants, cafes, pools, gymnasiums and business centres.  This may mean you need to use room service or other food delivery services.	Can I have contact with hotel staff?	Hotel staff know to avoid close contact with guests who are in isolation, but it is safe to be in the same room )without protective equipment when food is being delivered.	Cleaning staff will wear gloves while cleaning, and use alcohol-based hand sanitiser before and after wearing gloves.  Cleaning staff may wish to wear a surgical mask while cleaning the room.  Before entering the room, cleaning staff may inquire if you and others in your room are well, and ask you to put on a surgical mask.  We appreciate your cooperation on this matter.		When in isolation, monitor yourself for symptoms including fever, a cough, sore throat, tiredness or shortness of breath.	What do I do if I get sick?	If you develop mild symptoms:					Call a doctor or hospital and tell them your recent travel or close contact history.	If you have serious symptoms such as difficulty breathing:	Call 000, ask for an ambulance and notify the officers of your recent travel or close contact history.	How can we help prevent the spread of coronavirus?	Practising good hand and sneeze/cough hygiene is the best defence against most viruses.  You should:	wash your hands frequently with soap and water, before and after eating, and after going to the toilet 		and if unwell, avoid contact with others.		While coronavirus is of concern, it is important to remember that most people displaying symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat or tiredness are likely suffering with a cold or other respiratory illness-- not coronavirus.		Call the National Coronavirus Health Information Line on 1800 020 080.  It operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  If you require translating or interpreting services, call 131 450.		If you have concerns about your health, speak to a doctor.