	)What is Australia doing?	All travellers arriving at Australia's international airports will be provided with a 'COVID-19 information for international travellers' fact sheet as well as an Isolation Declaration Card for completion.	Additional communication materials and announcements are available at the arrival halls of every Australian port.  This material informs travellers of the symptoms of COVID-19 and encourages them to report to biosecurity officers if they are experiencing symptoms while in the port environment.	Entry restrictions apply to foreign travellers from all countries, excluding New Zealand citizens resident in Australia.	All travellers arriving in Australia must self-isolate in designated accommodation for 14 days after entering Australia.  Travellers may also be subject to health screening at the airport.	Ill travellers on aircraft will continue to be assessed using the 'Traveller with Illness Checklist', which includes questions to screen for COVID-19.	The Australian Government is also working closely with the airlines to support crew members travelling to and from international destinations.  Crew have been advised to take particular care on layovers, to use dedicated private transport, avoid crowded public spaces, use personal protective equipment )where appropriate, monitor for symptoms, and not to fly if they have any symptoms of a respiratory illness.	What are aircraft required to report?	All aircraft entering Australian territory are legally required to report ill passengers and crew on the pre-arrival report.  A biosecurity officer will then meet the aircraft to screen for COVID-19 and other listed human diseases.  Biosecurity officers do this by administering the 'Traveller with Illness Checklist' to the ill passenger or crew member.  A biosecurity officer or human biosecurity officer may then issue directions for the management of a suspected case of COVID-19, which are legally required to be followed.	Is there information available for passengers and crew?	The Department of Health is providing additional communication material for travellers )on-board all aircraft into Australia and at all Australian international airports and seaports.  This material informs travellers about COVID-19 and what to do if they have come from a risk area and are ill, or become ill.	How can I reduce the risk to passengers and crew?	Crew are advised to continue to follow their existing infection prevention work instructions when in contact with ill passengers, including the use of PPE )when recommended.	The following measures will help to reduce the risk of spread:	Crew and passengers should be encouraged to practise good hand hygiene and good sneeze/cough hygiene:	Wash your hands often with soap and water, or use alcohol-based hand rub, particularly before and after eating, and after going to the toilet;	Cover your nose and mouth when coughing and sneezing, dispose of the tissue and wash your hands.	Avoid touching your mouth, eyes, and nose with unwashed or gloved hands.	If PPE is used, it should be fitted and worn properly.	Airlines should ensure appropriate cleaning and disinfection activities are undertaken between each flight.	What should I do if a passenger or crew member is ill?	If possible, ill passengers )or crew experiencing cough, fever, sore throat, sweats or chills should:	be separated from other travellers as a precaution, with at least one spare seat on either side or a window seat with a spare seat next to them.  Ideally, the row should be kept empty;		be allocated a specific toilet for use by affected passengers/crew only.	Crew members should:			use alcohol-based hand sanitiser following removal of gloves and contact with any persons or surfaces;	use appropriate PPE if close contact with an ill passenger or their bodily fluids is required; and 		What PPE are pilots and flight crew required to wear?	Airline crew and pilots are not routinely required to wear any additional PPE for the duration of any flight.	If a crew member is required to assist a passenger )who is ill, the crew member should:	wear a surgical mask, disposable full-length gown, gloves and eye protection;	remove any PPE carefully )to avoid self-contamination;	dispose of used PPE carefully in biohazard bags and use alcohol-based hand sanitiser immediately after tying the bag tightly closed; and 	wear gloves to clean then disinfect surrounding surfaces with a broad spectrum disinfectant and use alcohol-based hand rub after removing gloves.	When cleaning toilets used by ill passengers or surfaces visibly contaminated with body fluids, crew members should:	wear a surgical mask, disposable full-length gown, gloves and eye protection;	clean and then disinfect surrounding surfaces with a broad spectrum disinfectant;	remove any PPE carefully )to avoid self-contamination; and 	dispose of used PPE carefully in biohazard bags and use alcohol-based hand sanitiser immediately after tying the bag tightly closed.		When transiting through airport terminals and other crowded places, wear a surgical mask and keep a safe distance )from people.	Proceed directly to the crew hotel on exiting the terminal.	Avoid crowded or public places, and stay and eat meals at the crew hotel.	Practise good hand hygiene and good sneeze/cough hygiene:	wash your hands often with soap and water, or use alcohol-based hand rub, particularly before and after eating, and after attending the toilet; and 	cover your cough and sneeze, dispose of the tissue and wash your hands.	Avoid touching your mouth, eyes, and nose with unwashed hands.	Limit interactions with other crew and hotel staff and avoid all unnecessary interaction with others.	Practise social distancing and avoid physical contact with others.	).Who is exempt from the mandatory 14 day quarantine requirements?	There are some exemptions for specific industry groups provided they adhere to the advice in this fact sheet.  Exemptions for specific groups are granted because of the industry infection prevention requirements and training these groups have undergone.  They support the vital air bridge between Australia and the rest of the world and ensure supply of critical services during this difficult time.	The following industry groups are exempt from the mandatory 14 day quarantine requirements:	Airline, medevac and air ambulance crew, including off-shift crew who are travelling as passengers on an aircraft to reposition at another location 	Australian air crew on both international and domestic flights are also exempt from self-isolation measures, however they must still adhere to social distancing measures.	Airline crew who are foreign nationals must self-isolate in their crew accommodation for 14 days after arrival or until their next flight, whichever is shorter.	Industry groups which are exempt from the mandatory 14 day quarantine requirements are not required to complete an Isolation Declaration Card.	All aircrew are advised to take particular care on lay overs, to use dedicated private transport and to avoid crowded public spaces.  Airline crew should monitor for symptoms and not fly if they are ill.		While COVID-19 is of concern, it is important to remember that it is currently influenza season in the northern hemisphere.  It is likely that the majority of travellers displaying infectious symptoms have a common respiratory infection, rather than COVID-19.  However, COVID-19 vigilance is important.	Where can I get more information?	For the latest advice, information and resources, go to.	Call the National Coronavirus Health Helpline on 1800 020 080.  The line operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  If you require translating or interpreting services, call 131 450.	The phone number of your state or territory public health agency is available at.	If you have concerns about your health, speak to your doctor.