	This information sheet should be read in conjunction with the 'What you need to know' and 'Isolation guidance' information sheets at 	Cleaning is an essential part of disinfection because dirt and grime can inactivate many disinfectants.  Cleaning reduces the amount of dirt and so allows the disinfectant to work.  Removal of germs such as the virus that causes COVID-19 requires thorough cleaning followed by disinfection.	The length of time the virus that causes COVID-19 can survive on inanimate surfaces varies depending on factors such as the amount of contaminated body fluid )or soiling present, and environmental temperature and humidity.	Coronaviruses can survive on surfaces for many hours or more but are readily inactivated by cleaning and disinfection.	It is good practice to routinely clean surfaces as follows:	Clean frequently touched surfaces with detergent solution.	)Clean general surfaces and fittings when visibly soiled and immediately after any spillage.	Routine environmental cleaning requirements can be divided into two groups:											Detergent solution/wipes )are adequate for cleaning general surfaces and non-patient care areas.	Damp mopping is preferable to dry mopping.	Walls and blinds should be cleaned when visibly dusty or soiled.	Window curtains should be regularly changed in addition to being cleaned when soiled.	Sinks and basins should be cleaned on a regular basis.	Detergent solution/wipes )are adequate for cleaning general surfaces and non-patient care areas.	Damp mopping is preferable to dry mopping.	Walls and blinds should be cleaned when visibly dusty or soiled.	Window curtains should be regularly changed in addition to being cleaned when soiled.	Sinks and basins should be cleaned on a regular basis.	Should be frequently, mechanically cleaned.	Detergent solution )or detergent/disinfectant wipes can be used.	)Should be frequently, mechanically cleaned.	Detergent solution )or detergent/disinfectant wipes can be used.		Social contact environments include ),transport vehicles, shopping centres and private businesses.  The risk of transmission of COVID-19 in these settings can be minimised through a good standard of general hygiene.  This includes:	Promoting cough etiquette and respiratory hygiene.	Routine cleaning of frequently touched hard surfaces with detergent/disinfectant solution/wipe.	Providing adequate alcohol-based hand rub )for staff and consumers to use.  Alcohol-based hand sanitiser stations should be available, especially in areas where food is on display and frequent touching of produce occurs.	Training staff on use of alcohol-based hand sanitiser.	Consider signs to ask shoppers to only touch what they intend to purchase.				Soap and water can be used for hand hygiene at any time and should be used when hands are visibly soiled 	Alcohol-based hand rub )can be used if soap and water are not readily accessible, except when hands are visibly soiled.	Cleaning hands regularly also helps to reduce environmental contamination.			cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue and dispose of tissue immediately.	or cough/sneeze into the bend of your elbow.	wash your hands or use alcohol-based hand sanitiser.	Practice physical distancing )and, if unwell, avoid contact with others 			While coronavirus is of concern, it is important to remember that most people displaying symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat or tiredness are likely suffering with a cold or other respiratory illness-- not coronavirus.		Call the National Coronavirus Health Information Line on 1800 020 080.  It operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  If you require translating or interpreting services, call 131 450.		If you have concerns about your health, speak to a doctor.