	What actions can residents and staff take to prevent the spread of COVID-19?	Encourage residents and staff to take everyday preventive actions to prevent the spread of respiratory illnesses.  Actions include staying home when sick; appropriately covering coughs and sneezes; cleaning and then disinfecting frequently touched surfaces; and washing hands often with soap and water.	How can my retirement community or independent living facility prepare for COVID-19?	Administrators should take the following actions to prevent a COVID-19 outbreak in their community or facility:	Establish the 'buddy' system to ensure residents stay connected.	Encourage residents to have extra medications and supplies.	Identify residents with unique needs and work with them to tailor these strategies.	Find ways to support residents in managing stress and anxiety.	Encourage everyone to take everyday preventive actions to prevent the spread of respiratory illnesses.	Ensure hand hygiene supplies )are readily available in all buildings.	Monitor for cases and take action when someone is sick.	Review the usual absenteeism patterns at your facility among staff, so you can identify if the rate of absenteeism increases.	Coordinate with local health facilities if you suspect a resident or staff member may have COVID-19 	What resources does CDC have available to share with facilities?	Share resources with the community to help them understand COVID-19 and steps they can take to protect themselves:	CDC offers several free handwashing resources that include health promotion materials and information on proper handwashing technique.	Does CDC have recommendations for cleaning and disinfecting surfaces?	Routinely clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces )with cleaners that you typically use.  Use all cleaning products according to the directions on the label.  Practice strict infection control procedures if there is a case in your facility.	Follow CDC's Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations for Communities.	What should administrators do if a resident or staff shows symptoms of COVID-19?	Ask residents to actively monitor )for COVID-19 symptoms, including fever and respiratory symptoms.  )Administrators should work with local health authorities to establish procedures for those who become sick.  Sick residents should avoid contact with individuals who are healthy.  If you think someone may have COVID-19, ask them to self-isolate and you should contact local health officials.	What should administrators do if there is a case of COVID-19 in our facility?	Work with local health authorities to communicate the possible exposure to residents, staff, and visitors.  Clean and disinfect all shared facilities and high-touch surfaces.  Limit visitors to essential staff and visitors.  Staff and, when possible, visitors should be screened for signs and symptoms of COVID-19 before entering the facility.  Residents will need to actively monitor their health for COVID-19 symptoms.  Cancel group activities.  Residences that become ill should be advised to call the medical facility in advance of their visit.  See CDC's full interim guidance for more details.