	I was tested for coronavirus (COVID-19).  How long until my test results will be available?	Contact your health care provider for your test results.  Results will usually be available in 24-48 hours, but may vary depending on a variety of factors (e.g, the time required to get the specimen to the lab, number of specimens that need to be tested, lab being used to do the testing).  The North Dakota Department of Health is unable to release results to patients.	The North Dakota Department of Health has developed a fact sheet for people who have been tested for COVID-19 and are waiting for results.	YOU ARE BEING TESTED FOR COVID-19, NOW WHAT?	As a person being tested for or possibly with COVID-19, please follow the steps below to help prevent the disease from spreading to people in your home and community.	As a person being tested for or possibly with COVID-19, please follow the steps below to help prevent the disease from spreading to people in your home and community.  ISOLATE People who are mildly ill with or suspected to have COVID-19 should isolate at home during the course of the illness.  Activities outside the home should be restricted.  Do not attend work, school or spend time in public areas.  Do not use public transportation, ride-sharing or taxis.	Separate yourself from the people and animals you live with in your home as much as possible which includes using a separate bathroom if available.  If total separation is not possible, avoid close contact with people and pets.  Do not snuggle, kiss or share food or drink and remember to wash your hands often.  Avoid sharing dishes, cups, utensils, towels, bedding and other personal items in the home until they can be washed with soap and water.  Clean all high-touch surfaces (counters, tabletops, doorknobs, toilets, phones, etc) at least daily if not more often.  Utilize household cleaning sprays and wipes according to the label instructions.  Facemasks can be worn when around other people or pets.  If you are not able to wear a facemask, then others may wear a facemask only when entering your isolated space.	Household contacts of people who are being tested for COVID-19 should remain at home until the test results are available.	For more information about your household contacts, see Recommended precautions for household members, intimate partners, and caregivers in a nonhealthcare setting.	Cover your mouth and nose with a disposable tissue when you cough or sneeze.  Throw these tissues into a lined trash can and immediately wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not available, clean your hands with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60% alcohol.  Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth as much as possible.	If in the course of your illness you experience worsening or severe symptoms, it is important to seek medical care.  BEFORE SEEKING CARE, call ahead to the clinic or hospital where you plan to go and tell them you are being evaluated for or have been diagnosed with COVID-19 as they will have facility specific instructions.  The facility may have a separate door or process for intake for COVID-19 patients that will help to reduce the risk of infecting others.	If you have a medical emergency, call 911 and inform the dispatch personnel that you have or are being evaluated for COVID-19.  If possible, put on a facemask before EMS arrives.	If your test results indicate that you DO have COVID-19, remain in home isolation until the risk of secondary transmission is low.  You must remain at home isolated until 7 days have passed since your symptom onset AND you have been fever-free (<100.4F) for 72 hours without the use of fever-reducing medications AND respiratory symptoms are improving.	If your test results indicate that you DO NOT have COVID-19, you should still remain in home isolation until fever free without the use of fever-reducing medications for at least 24 hours and have improved illness signs or symptoms.	Where should I go to get tested for coronavirus (COVID-19)?	Individuals who think they may have COVID-19 but have minor symptoms should self-isolate at home.  Individuals seeking medical attention should call before they go in.  Symptoms of COVID-19 in people who have been exposed can include fever, cough and shortness of breath.  The symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as long as 14 days after exposure.  Reported illnesses have ranged from people with little to no symptoms to people being severely ill and dying.	Each facility within the state is making decisions on how to see patients who require COVID-19 testing.  Some of those plans may include drive-through testing locations.  Talk with your health care providers in your community to determine how and where they are receiving patients for testing.	Not everyone calling a health care provider will be given guidance to come in for testing.  To address the shortage of nylon swabs, the North Dakota Department of Health has recommended to health care providers that testing be prioritized for the following groups:	Patients hospitalized with respiratory illness Those living or working in congregate settings Health care workers Those who are identified by public health as a close contact to an existing positive case and are ill All people should continue to follow social distancing guidance, good handwashing hygiene and staying home if sick.  Any person with a fever and/or respiratory symptoms who was not tested, should stay home until at least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since recovery (fever-free without the use of fever-reducing medications) and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g, cough, shortness of breath); and at least 7 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.	My health care provider told me to call the North Dakota Department of Health's Public Health Hotline about getting tested for coronavirus (COVID-19)?	The North Dakota Department of Health has authorized providers to use their judgement on who should be tested for COVID-19.  Contact a health care provider; they will determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.	The North Dakota Department of Health has provided the following guidance to health care providers: Health care providers should not refer patients to the North Dakota Department of Health for medical consultation or screening to determine the need for testing.	Other people in my family are being tested for coronavirus (COVID-19).  Should I be staying home?	People being tested and waiting for results should stay home until they receive their test results.	Healthy people who have been in contact with someone, including family members who are being tested and waiting for their results, can work and do not need to be quarantined at this time.  If someone in the household has tested positive for coronavirus, keep the entire household at home.	I may have been at the same location as a person who was diagnosed with coronavirus (COVID-19).  What should I do?	The North Dakota Department of Health will be conducting interviews with people that have been confirmed to have COVID-19 to determine who their close contacts are.	Being in an indoor environment (e.g, store, workplace, restaurant) with someone who has COVID-19 is not necessarily considered having close contact.  A close contact is defined as a person who spends a prolonged period of time within 6 feet (2 meters) of a person that has been diagnosed with COVID-19.  Close contact can occur while caring for, living with, visiting, or sharing a health care waiting area or room with someone that has been diagnosed with COVID-19.  Just being in an indoor environment with someone is not necessarily a close contact.	The North Dakota Department of Health will be conducting interviews with all persons diagnosed with COVID-19 to determine who their close contacts are.  People who are identified as close contacts will be notified by the North Dakota Department of Health and will receive instruction on quarantine and monitoring.	If you have not been contacted by the North Dakota Department of Health after you have been in the same location with a person diagnosed with COVID-19, you are not considered a close contact but should continue to follow social distancing guidance, good handwashing hygiene and staying home if you become sick.	Any person with a fever and/or respiratory symptoms who was not tested, should stay home until at least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since recovery (fever-free without the use of fever-reducing medications) and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g, cough, shortness of breath); and at least 7 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.	How many positive cases (people diagnosed) of coronavirus (COVID-19) have been reported in North Dakota and where are the cases located?	For the most up-to-date information on the number and location of cases (people diagnosed) of COVID-19 reported in North Dakota, visit:	Is there any information about coronavirus (COVID-19) in languages other than English?	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website has information translated in Mandarin and Spanish:	The Minnesota Department of Health has information on coronavirus (COVID-19) in multiple languages (Amharic, Arabic, Chinese, Hmong, Karen, Russian, Somali, Spanish, and Vietnamese):	I'm older and have a chronic condition, although I feel fine right now.  I want to protect myself.  Should I be going to work?	It's important to discuss with your health care provider about your risk of complications if you would also acquire coronavirus (COVID-19).  Decisions between your health care provider and your employer could help you decide what is best for your health.	All people should continue to follow social distancing guidance, good handwashing hygiene and staying home if sick.  Any person with a fever and/or respiratory symptoms who was not tested, should stay home until at least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since recovery (fever-free without the use of fever-reducing medications) and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g, cough, shortness of breath); and at least 7 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.	I am an employer, for what reasons should I close my business?	Interim guidance for businesses and employers can be found at:	I am an employer and am wondering how to handle employees who state they tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19).  How can I verify if this is true?	The North Dakota Department of Health cannot release an individual's test results to unauthorized persons because of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Laws.  However, we will work with individuals to identify any close contacts that need to be notified.	I have been around someone at work who was identified as a contact to some diagnosed with coronavirus (COVID-19).  What should I do?	Secondary contacts (contact to a contact) can report to work as long as they are not sick.  Unless you have been told to stay home by the North Dakota Department of Health, you can report to work as long as you remain well.	All people should continue to follow social distancing guidance, good handwashing hygiene and staying home if sick.  Any person with a fever and/or respiratory symptoms who was not tested, should stay home until at least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since recovery (fever-free without the use of fever-reducing medications) and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g, cough, shortness of breath); and at least 7 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.	I have been sick and now I'm feeling better, but my employer wants me to get tested for coronavirus (COVID-19) or get a note from my health care provider before I come back to work.  What should I do?	All people should continue to follow social distancing guidance, good handwashing hygiene and staying home if sick.  Any person with a fever and/or respiratory symptoms who was not tested, should stay home until at least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since recovery (fever-free without the use of fever-reducing medications) and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g, cough, shortness of breath); and at least 7 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.	Guidance for employers on response plans to COVID-19 can be found at:	Someone who lives in my home is sick with respiratory symptoms but has not been tested for coronavirus (COVID-19).  I am not sick, can I still work?	Yes, people who are not sick and are not under advisement for other reasons (e.g, travel from a Level 3 location, close contact to a person diagnosed with COVID-19) can report to work.	All people should continue to follow social distancing guidance, good handwashing hygiene and staying home if sick.  Any person with a fever and/or respiratory symptoms who was not tested, should stay home until at least 3 days (72 hours) have passed since recovery (fever-free without the use of fever-reducing medications) and improvement in respiratory symptoms (e.g, cough, shortness of breath); and at least 7 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.	Where can I find a list of agencies with significant changes to their work hours or closures?	FirstLink is maintaining a list of agencies with significant changes or closures across the state on their website.  This list will be updated in real-time as such information is shared with them.	Where can I find information/resources for businesses and employers?	Resources for businesses and employers can be found at:	Where can I find information/resources for childcare/daycare facilities?	The guidance for schools and daycares can be found at:	There was a webcast on March 10, 2020, that discussed questions that many childcare/daycares have relating to coronavirus (COVID-19).  That webcast can be found at:	While recommendations around social distancing and mass gatherings indicate people should not congregate in groups of 10 people or more, this does not apply to the school, work, business owners or childcare settings at this time.	I have an international trip planned.  Should I still travel?	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued travel warnings related to all international travel.  Some countries have more strict recommendations than others.  For up-to-date information related to travel warnings and recommendations, visit:	I recently traveled within the last 14 days.  I'm not sure if I was somewhere with coronavirus (COVID-19).  What should I do?	All individuals traveling back to North Dakota from international locations and states in the U.S that have been classified as having widespread disease by the CDC (list below) must quarantine immediately upon reentry to the state of North Dakota and for a period of 14 days.	Essential critical infrastructure workers, as defined by the United States Department of Homeland Security, are exempt from this order.	Affected individuals are encouraged to fill out the travel form to receive information on how to monitor for symptoms.  If you have symptoms and wish to seek medical care, please call before you go in.	Should I travel within the United States?	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) does not generally issue advisories or restrictions for travel within the United States.  However, all individuals traveling back to North Dakota from international locations and states in the U.S that have been classified as having widespread disease by the CDC must quarantine immediately upon reentry to the state of North Dakota and for a period of 14 days.  See the Travel Quarantine Order for more information, including a list of affected states.	I received an offer of mortgage or rent assistance; how do I know if it is legitimate?	While some offers of assistance are legitimate, many are not.  Some red flags include:	Guarantees that a business can stop a foreclosure or eviction, regardless of circumstances.	Asking for payment before any services are performed.	Instructions to make mortgage or rent payment to someone else, not to your loan servicer or landlord.	Asking you to sign incomplete or blank paperwork or pressuring you to sign a document you have not had time to read thoroughly.	Do not respond to emails, texts or social media notifications that you can receive or are qualified for assistance.  Call your mortgage servicer or landlord to discuss your situation.	I heard there was a 60-day mortarium on foreclosures and evictions, do I have to make my payment?	Yes, if you can pay your rent or make your mortgage payment, you should continue to do so.  The moratorium on foreclosures and evictions doesn't mean that payments are no longer required.  It means that households who are unable to make payments cannot be evicted or foreclosed on.	My friend doesn't have to make his payment, he received a payment holiday.  Why didn't I receive a holiday?	A payment holiday doesn't mean that your friend won't have to make a payment, it means the payment was deferred or delayed.  Eventually, the payment will be required.  Each mortgage loan servicer or landlord has different financial circumstances dictating what they are able to offer.  Talk to your loan servicer or landlord to learn what options they can provide.	If I can't pay my rent, will I be evicted?  If I can't make my mortgage payment, will I lose my house to foreclosure?	Contact your landlord or mortgage servicer to discuss the situation.  It will be up to your landlord or mortgage servicer to decide if they will offer a repayment plan and/or waive late fees.	I was laid off and can't make my mortgage or rent payment, what should I do?	Contact your mortgage servicer or landlord to discuss your situation.  Servicers provide their contact information on monthly statements or in a payment coupon book.  Landlords provide contact information on leases.  It is typically available at apartment building entrances as well.	Additional information from the North Dakota Department of Human Services North Dakotans are encouraged to use the North Dakota Department of Human Services self-service portal at to apply for Medicaid health care coverage and other help, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), child care assistance and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF).  Some individuals can also use the portal webpage to complete required reviews, report changes in income, household size and other circumstances, and to securely upload documents.  TANF monthly reporting has not been automated yet, and clients should continue to submit completed reports to their local human service zone offices (formerly known as county social service offices).  These can be submitted by email, fax or dropped off at a zone office.	Individuals can find information about how to apply for heating assistance at or by contacting their local human service zone office.	Parents can also find resources and information and access online Child Support services at.  Parents with questions about their case can also call Child Support customer service at, toll-free at.	Parents, family members, and other trusted adults play an important role in helping children make sense of what they hear in a way that is honest, accurate, and minimizes anxiety or fear.  Visit for resources to guide your conversations.	I have a substance use disorder and I'm feeling anxious.  Where can I go for support?	The outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) can be stressful for people and communities.  The North Dakota Department of Human Services' Behavioral Health Division is offering resources to support North Dakotans' behavioral health during this time.	Recovery Talk: Individuals with a substance use disorder that need support are encouraged to visit with a trained peer support specialist in the state who has lived experience in addiction.	Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Disaster Distress Helpline:	Available to provide crisis counseling and support to people experiencing emotional distress related to natural or human-caused disasters.  TYY for individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing.	I am feeling anxious, where can I go for support?	The outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) can be stressful for people and communities.  The North Dakota Department of Human Services' Behavioral Health Division is offering resources to support North Dakotans' behavioral health during this time.	FirstLink 2-1-1 (available 24/7):	FirstLink maintains a directory of community resources spanning across the entire state of North Dakota and western Minnesota.	In addition to providing information on resources (e.g, financial assistance, food banks), the 24/7 2-1-1 Helpline is available to provide listening and support to those in need during these trying times.	How much is a business required to pay an employee for paid sick leave?	The employee is experiencing symptoms of COVID-- 19 and seeking a medical diagnosis.	The employee is experiencing any other substantially similar condition specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Labor.	How do I access these resources?	Who are the eligible employees for paid sick leave?	Eligible employees for paid sick leave include:	an employee who was laid off not earlier than March 1, 2020, had worked for the employer for not less than 30 of the last 60 calendar days prior to the employee's layoff, and was rehired by the employer.	How long should an employer provide paid leave for an employee affected by the COVID-19 outbreak?	An employer's requirement to provide paid leave with respect to a specific employee expires at the end of:	upon the employee's return to work after taking paid leave.	What if I have not filed a tax return?	There are two ways an individual who has not filed a tax return may receive the tax rebate:	people who receive Social Security benefits but don't file tax returns are eligible too --their checks will be based on information provided by the Social Security Administration.	Who is NOT eligible?	Any nonresident alien individual, any individual with respect to whom a deduction under section 151 of Subchapter B of chapter 65 of subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is allowable to another taxpayer for a taxable year beginning in the calendar year in which the individual's taxable year begins, and an estate or trust.	What year is my adjusted gross income base on?	What are the limits based on Adjusted Gross Income (AGI)?	The amount you will receive is based on the adjusted gross income (AGI) in your 2018 or 2019 tax return.  The full amount will be sent to anyone with an AGI at or below $75,000 for individuals, $112,500 for head of household, and $150,000 for married couples.  The rebate is phased out gradually and individuals with an AGI of $99,000 or $198,000 for married couples will not receive rebates.	How much will my rebate be?	Up to $1,200 per individual; $2,400 in the case of eligible individuals filing a joint return; plus $500 for each eligible child.	For self-employed individuals that file for UI, how is the unemployment calculated if their company is a corporation?	Since UI payments will be through Job Service North Dakota, please contact them directly.	What documentation must be provided?	Documentation must be provided in the following areas:	An eligible self-employed individual seeking a covered loan shall submit payroll tax filings reported to the Internal Revenue Service.	An independent contractor seeking a covered loan shall submit each Form 1099-- MISC that contains reportable compensation.	An individual who operates under a sole proprietorship shall submit each schedule filed or to be filed with a tax return that documents any income or expenses for the sole proprietorship.	How do you know how income of self-employed and independent contractors will be determined?	CALCULATIONS OF AMOUNTS FOR CERTAIN COVERED INDIVIDUALS: In the case of a covered individual who is self-employed, who lives in a territory described in subsection (c) or (d) of section 625.6 of title 20 Code of Federal Regulations, or who would not otherwise qualify for unemployment compensation under State law, the assistance authorized under subsection (b) for a week of unemployment shall be calculated in accordance with section 625.6 of title 20, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto, and shall be increased by the amount of Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation under section 2104.	How do I receive payment?	The payments will be paid through Job Service North Dakota.	What is the amount of assistance?	The weekly benefit amount is the amount determined under State law plus an additional $600.	How many weeks am I eligible to receive assistance?	The total number of weeks a covered individual may receive assistance shall not exceed 39 weeks and such total shall include any week for which the covered individual received regular compensation or extended benefits under any Federal or State law.	What is the timeframe for a covered individual?	Unemployment assistance shall be available to a covered individual for weeks of unemployment, partial unemployment, or inability to work caused by COVID-19 beginning on or after January 27, 2020 and ending on or before December 31, 2020.	Who is an eligible covered individual?	The term covered individual means an individual who:	The individual meets any additional criteria for unemployment assistance.	Does not include an individual who has the ability to telework with pay or an individual who is receiving paid sick leave or other paid leave benefits, regardless of whether the individual meets a qualification described in terms (i) through (k) above.	Is there an exemption for rehires?	The circumstances related to the amount of loan forgiveness shall be determined without regard to a reduction in the number of FTE employees of an eligible recipient or a reduction in the salary of 1 or more employees of the eligible employer, as applicable, during the period beginning on February 15, 2020 and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.	In a circumstance described below, the loan forgiveness shall be determined:	In which the events described above occur.	Is there a reduction in loan forgiveness relating to salary and wages?	The amount of loan forgiveness shall be reduced by the amount of any reduction in total salary or wages of any employee during the covered period that is in excess of 25 percent of the total salary or wages of the employee during the most recent full quarter during which the employee was employed before the covered period.  An employee described here, is any employee who did not receive, during any single pay period during 2019, wages or salary at an annualized rate of pay in an amount more than $100,000.	Tipped Workers --an eligible recipient with tipped employees may receive forgiveness for additional wages paid to those employees.	Is there a reduction in loan forgiveness if I've laid off employees?	The amount of loan forgiveness shall be reduced, but not increased, by multiplying the amount equal to the sum of the following costs incurred and payments made during the covered period by the quotient obtained by dividing:	In the case of an eligible recipient that is seasonal employer, the average number of FTE shall be determined by calculating the average number of FTE during the period beginning on February 15, 2019 and ending on June 30, 2019.	What is the covered period for loan forgiveness?	The term covered period means the 8-week period beginning on the date of the origination of a covered loan.	How will I receive funding?  Where do I go to request funding?	The authority to make loans is extended to additional lenders as determined by the Small Business Administration.  For more information, visit the North Dakota COVID-19 Resources webpage.	Is there a period of payment deferral for my covered loan?	Yes.  Complete payment deferment relief for a period of not less than 6 months, including payment of principal, interest, and fees, and not more than 1 year.	What is the maturity for loans with a remaining balance after application for forgiveness?	With respect to a covered loan that has a remaining balance after reduction based on the loan forgiveness amount under section 1106 of the CARES Act:	The covered loan shall have a maximum maturity of 10 years from the date on which the borrower applies for loan forgiveness.	Is a personal guarantee required?	During the covered period, the requirement that a small business concern is unable to obtain credit elsewhere, as defined in the CARES Act, shall not apply to a covered loan.  During the covered period, with respect to a covered loan, no personal guarantee and no collateral shall be required for the covered loan.	What are the requirements as a borrower?	An eligible recipient applying for a covered loan shall make a good faith certification:	During the period beginning on February 15, 2020 and ending on December 31, 2020, that the eligible recipient has not received amounts for the same purpose and duplicative of amounts applied for or received under a covered loan.	Do I qualify for a paycheck protection covered loan if I've already applied for the Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) through the SBA Disaster Loan program, or other authorized additional lenders?	Yes, and the following are the limitations on a paycheck protection covered loan:	An eligible recipient of a covered loan for purposes of paying payroll costs and other obligations described in question two (Q2) shall not be eligible to receive an Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) for the same purpose.	What are the limits on amount of a covered loan forgiveness?	An eligible recipient shall be eligible for forgiveness of indebtedness on a covered loan in an amount equal to the sum of the following costs incurred and payments made during the covered period:	Any covered utility payment.	Is the entire amount of the loan eligible for forgiveness?	The amount of loan forgiveness under this section shall not exceed the principal amount of the financing made available under the applicable covered loan.  The amount of loan forgiveness shall not exceed the sum of:	The amount of payments made during the covered period on debt obligations that were incurred before the covered period.	The amount of loan forgiveness is reduced if the businesses full-time equivalent (FTE) count has a reduction in FTE.	What criteria does a small business need to meet to turn a covered loan into a forgivable loan?	A loan is eligible for forgiveness in the amount equal to the cost of maintaining payroll continuity during the period of March 1, 2020 through June 30, 2020.	Payroll costs do not include:	qualified sick leave wages and qualified family leave wages in which a credit is allowed under the H.R 6201 -Families First Coronavirus Response Act.	What is the timeframe of a covered loan?	The covered period is March 1, 2020 through Dec 31, 2020.	What are fee and interest rate requirements on a covered loan?	A covered loan is a fee-free loan and has an interest rate not exceeding four percent.	What is the maximum amount of a covered loan my business can borrow?	The amount of a covered loan is the lesser of $10,000,000. maximum per business.	Which types of businesses are eligible for a covered loan?	Four eligible types of businesses which are covered in this act are:	A small business, nonprofit organization, veteran's organization, or Tribal business which employs: if applicable, the size standard in number of employees established by the Small Business Administration for the industry in which the business concern, nonprofit organization, veteran's organization, or tribal business concern operates.	business operating under affiliated rules e.g a business operating as a franchise.	What is a covered loan?	A covered loan is a loan made during the period beginning on February 15, 2020 and ending on June 30, 2020.	Is the funding in the form of a loan, grant or forgivable loan?	The funding is in the form of a covered loan, ONLY with the option to become a forgivable loan if the employer follows the payroll continuity.	What is the Paycheck Protection Program?	Paycheck Protection Program is a loan program that a business, which has experienced business concern as a result of COVID-- 19, can use to keep its employees paid and employed.  This loan program enables businesses to cover the following eligible expenses:	Payroll costs, meaning the sum of payments of any compensation with respect to employees that are salary, wage, commission or similar compensation; payment of cash tip or equivalent; payment for vacation, parental, family, medical, or sick leave; allowance for dismissal or separation; payment required for the provisions of group health care benefits, including insurance premiums; payment for any retirement benefit; or payment of State or local tax assessed on the compensation of employees.  The sum of payments of any compensation to or income of a sole proprietor or independent contractor that is a wage commission, income net earnings from self-employment, or similar compensation and that is in an amount that is not more than $100,000 in 1 year, as prorated for the covered period.	Interest on any other debt obligations that were incurred before February 15, 2020.	Which funding program under the CARES Act can my business use to keep employees paid and employed?	The Paycheck Protection Program.	Is a personal guarantee required?	During the covered period, the requirement that a small business concern is unable to obtain credit elsewhere, as defined in the CARES Act, shall not apply to a covered loan.  During the covered period, with respect to a covered loan, no personal guarantee and no collateral shall be required for the covered loan.	What are the requirements as a borrower?	An eligible recipient applying for an EIDL shall make a good faith certification:	During the period beginning on February 15, 2020 and ending on December 31, 2020, that the eligible recipient has not received amounts for the same purpose and duplicative of amounts applied for or received under a covered loan.	Who is eligible for an Emergency Economic Injury Grant?	Those eligible for an EIDL and who have been in operation since January 31, 2020.	Which grants are associated with the EIDL?	The Emergency Economic Injury Grants.  These grants provide an emergency advance of up to $10,000 to small businesses and private non-profits harmed by COVID-19 within three days of applying for an SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL).	To access the advance, you first apply for an EIDL and then request the advance.  This Advance may be available even if your EIDL application was declined or is still pending and will be forgiven.  The advance may be used to keep employees on payroll, to pay for sick leave, meet increased production costs due to supply chain disruptions, or pay business obligations, including debts, rent and mortgage payments.  If an EIDL recipient later refinances into a PPP loan, any advances would be offset against any payroll related loan forgiveness.	What is the application deadline for EIDL?	Application Filing Deadline is December 31, 2020.	Expanded eligibility criteria and the emergency grants are only available between January 31, 2020 and December 31, 2020.	What is the loan amount limit?	The law limits EIDLs to $2,000,000 for alleviating economic injury caused by the disaster.	If I have applied for, or received an Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) related to COVID19 before the Paycheck Protection Program became available, will I be able to refinance into a PPP loan?	Yes.  If you received an EIDL loan related to COVID-19 between January 31, 2020 and the date at which the PPP becomes available, you would be able to refinance the EIDL into the PPP for loan forgiveness purposes.  However, you may not take out an EIDL and a PPP for the same purposes.  Remaining portions of the EIDL, for purposes other than those laid out in loan forgiveness terms for a PPP loan, would remain a loan.  If you took advantage of an emergency EIDL grant award of up to $10,000, that amount would be subtracted from the amount forgiven under PPP.	What are fee and interest rate requirements?	The interest rate is determined by formulas set by law and is fixed for the life of the loan.  The maximum interest rate for this disaster is 3.75 percent.	What is the loan term?	The law authorizes loan terms up to a maximum of 30 years.  SBA will determine an appropriate installment payment based on the financial condition of each borrower, which in turn will determine the loan term.	My private non-profit is not a 501( c)( 3).  Is it still eligible for an EIDL?	Yes, if you are a private non-profit with an effective ruling letter from the IRS, granting tax exemption under sections 501( c), (d), or (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or if you can provide satisfactory evidence from the State that the non-revenue producing organization or entity is a non-profit one organized or doing business under State law.  However, a recipient that is principally engaged in teaching, instructing, counseling, or indoctrinating religion or religious beliefs, whether in a religious or secular setting, or primarily engaged in political or lobbying activities is not eligible to receive an EIDL.	Who is eligible for an EIDL?	Those eligible are the following with 500 or fewer employees:	Additionally, you must have been in business as of January 31, 2020.	How does the temporary EIDL loan work with the PPP loan?	Emergency Economic Injury Grant and Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL) recipients who are eligible may apply for and take out a PPP loan if there are no duplication in the uses of funds.	What is an EIDL loan?	EIDL loans are lower interest loans of up to $2 million, with principal and interest deferment at the Administrator's discretion, which are available to pay expenses that could have been met if the disaster had not occurred, including payroll and other operating expenses.	Is all leave under the FMLA now paid leave?	No.  The only type of family and medical leave that is paid leave is expanded family and medical leave under the Emergency Family and Medical Leave Expansion Act when such leave exceeds ten days.  This includes only leave taken because the employee must care for a child whose school or place of care is closed, or child care provider is unavailable, due to COVID-19 related reasons.	If my employee need to stay home with a child because his or her school or place of care is closed, or child care provider is unavailable, does my employee get paid sick leave, expanded family and medical leave, or both-- how do they interact?	Employees may be eligible for both types of leave, but only for a total of twelve weeks of paid leave.  They may take both paid sick leave and expanded family and medical leave to care for a child whose school or place of care is closed, or child care provider is unavailable, due to COVID-19 related reasons.  The Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act provides for an initial two weeks of paid leave.  This period thus covers the first ten workdays of expanded family and medical leave, which are otherwise unpaid under the Emergency and Family Medical Leave Expansion Act unless the employee elects to use existing vacation, personal, or medical or sick leave under the company's policy.  After the first ten workdays have elapsed, the employee will receive 2/3 of their regular rate of pay for the hours s/he would have been scheduled to work in the subsequent ten weeks under the Emergency and Family Medical Leave Expansion Act.	Additionally, if an employee takes expanded family and medical leave, you must require them to provide you with documentation that supports the reason for taking this leave.  This may include a notice that has been posted on a school, daycare, or government website, published in a newspaper, or an email notification sent by the school district, child care provider, etc.  You should retain these documents for your records if you plan to claim a tax credit under FFCRA.	I am a business owner and I pay into the Unemployment Insurance system.  Can I file a claim if I must shut down my business?	Yes.  Governor Burgum signed an Executive Order on Friday, March 20th to assist business owners in the receipt of Unemployment Insurance by temporarily eliminating income reduction requirements for business owners.	If my business declines, or I need to close, lay off staff, or cut staff hours, will my Unemployment Insurance account be charged for any benefits paid to employees I had to lay off?	No.  Governor Burgum signed an Executive Order on Friday, March 20th directing that individual base period employers accounts will be relieved of charges (i.e No Charge) on claims filed as a direct or indirect result of COVID-19.	Who is responsible to pay for COVID-19 testing?	If an employer is requiring an employee to undergo COVID-19 testing, the employer is responsible for the cost of the testing.	Can I designate employees as "essential" or "non-essential" and apply different PTO requirements for each?	The employer has sole discretion to make designations, and may treat essential and non-essential employees differently with regard to their PTO policies, so long as the different treatment is not related to any protected class.	What if I am a school teacher, a union employee or other employee working under a contract?	Review the terms of your contract.  Generally, the contract will govern how an employee will be paid under these types of circumstances.	What is the guidance for employees who are asked to work remotely?	The employer can set all of the terms and conditions of employment.  For example, some employers may ask employees to keep their regular schedules, including breaks, even if they are working remotely.  In other cases, an employer and employee can work out alternative schedules, keeping in mind reasonable accommodations are made for employees who may need them.	Can my employer assign other duties, such as cleaning, even if cleaning is not specifically listed in my job description?	Yes.  An employer can set the terms and conditions of employment, including adding job duties.	Do I have to pay an employee, or as an employee, do I have to be paid, if operations are closed?	A non-exempt employee does not have to be paid if no work was performed.  Under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), an exempt employee is entitled to receive their regular salary if they are "ready, willing and able to work," but no work was available 	What are the differences between non-exempt and exempt status for employees?	A non-exempt employee is paid based on the work performed, on an hourly, salary, daily and/or piece rate.  A non-exempt employee is entitled to an overtime rate for any hours worked over 40 in a single workweek.  An exempt employee is paid on a salary basis for the job performed, not the number of hours of work performed.  An exempt employee is not entitled to overtime wages.	If I have to close my business and lay off employees, do I have to pay out their PTO?	In North Dakota, generally, PTO which is earned and available for an employee's use must be paid out upon "separation" from employment.  If an employer lays off employees for an indefinite period of time, or with no expectation of bringing some or all of its employees back at a certain date, PTO should be paid out to the employee.	Can I make an employee use Paid Time Off (PTO), or as an employer, must PTO be provided, if business operations are closed?	No.  State or federal laws require an employer to provide its employees with PTO.  Therefore, an employer can set all of the terms and conditions for the use of and/or awarding of PTO.	I am a contract worker.  I receive a 1099 in lieu of a W2.  Will I be eligible for unemployment benefits if no work is available for me?	Included in the CARES Act is Pandemic Unemployment Assistance which is a program for those who do not qualify for regular unemployment benefits.  Job Service North Dakota is currently working to implement this program.	I was receiving Unemployment Insurance benefits prior to the COVID-19 pandemic.  I have now used up all of my benefits from my claim and am still not back to work.  Are there any extensions of benefits available for me?	With the passage of the CARES Act those who have current Benefit Year Ends and have exhausted their benefits would most likely be eligible to receive the PEUC extension of 13 additional weeks of regular UI.  Other regular claims would be potentially eligible for PEUC at the point they exhaust.  We are awaiting guidance on claims where the benefit year has expired and how they might be processed.	CARES Act --Unemployment Insurance Benefits The CARES Act includes expansion of unemployment insurance benefits:	Expands eligibility for unemployment insurance and provides people with an additional $600 per week on top of the unemployment amount already offered by North Dakota Unemployment benefits.	Pandemic Emergency Unemployment Compensation (PEUC) --provides an additional 13 weeks of benefits for regular claims that exhaust benefits and whose benefit year has not expired 	I am a business owner and I pay into the Unemployment Insurance system.  Can I file a claim if I must shut down my business?	Yes.  Governor Burgum signed an Executive Order on Friday, March 20th to assist business owners in the receipt of Unemployment Insurance by temporarily eliminating income reduction requirements for business owners.	If my business declines, or I need to close, lay off staff, or cut staff hours, will my Unemployment Insurance account be charged for any benefits paid to employees I had to lay off?	No.  Governor Burgum signed an Executive Order on Friday, March 20th directing that individual base period employers accounts will be relieved of charges (I.e No Charged) on claims filed as a direct or indirect result of COVID-19.	Will my employees be eligible for benefits if they cannot work even if my business remains open and I have work for them?	Yes, generally your employees will be eligible for benefits, if they cannot report for work because they no longer have childcare available to them.  If childcare is available, and they choose to not use it, and do not report for work they would most likely be found ineligible as they are not available for work.	Would I be eligible for Unemployment Insurance benefits if I am quarantined and cannot work?	Yes, if you are quarantined and physically able to work but cannot work from the quarantine location do to other reasons, you would be eligible to receive benefits based upon recent federal guidance relating strictly to COVID-19.	Would I be eligible for Unemployment Insurance benefits If I become ill with the COVID-19 virus and cannot work?	Yes, if you cannot work due to contracting COVID-19 but will be returning to your employer, you would be eligible to receive benefits based upon recent federal guidance relating strictly to COVID-19.	Would I be eligible for benefits if my employer shuts down or lays me off because of the COVID-19 situation?	If your employer shuts down or lays you off due to lack of work caused by the impact of COVID-19 on the business, you will generally be eligible for Unemployment Insurance benefits.	I have a claim and I was required to do four work search contacts each week.  Do I have to do my work search during the pandemic?	No.  Governor Burgum signed an Executive Order on Friday, March 20th that temporarily waives the work search requirement for all claimants.  Job Service has adjusted our systems so that you will not be asked to enter any work searches you have completed when you certify your weekly eligibility.	What is the state of North Dakota or federal government doing to support businesses?	There are discussions underway at both the state and federal level about finding a way to make this pandemic a triggering event.  While that would potentially bring coverage, it would have a massive effect on the insurance industry.  Insurance is a product that is risk rated and sold based on those risks that are covered in the policy.  This type of event was excluded from many policies, and to retroactively enact coverage would put the entire insurance industry at risk of insolvency.  This move could also lead to dramatic rate increases, which could also make insurance unaffordable to businesses as we look to recover from this pandemic.	Additionally, the government retroactively amending contracts (insurance agreements) would also face significant constitutional issues and would ultimately be challenged in court.	The best option at this point may be to explore what resources are available in North Dakota and through the federal government.  To learn more about disaster loans and other programs to help business owners during this difficult time, visit.	What is the definition of a loss?	Most policies contain similar definitions to those listed below, however, the Department recommends reviewing your specific policy for accurate definitions.	Losses are broken down under three main coverages:	Basic --named perils needs to be listed in the policy.	Broad --named perils needs to be listed in the policy.	Example of a named peril:	Infectious Diseases --this includes loss caused by the complete interruption of your operations by an infectious disease acquired by your employees or staff.	Special --covers any loss not excluded in the policy, must be direct physical loss.	Example of an exclusion:	Virus or Bacteria --any virus, bacterium or other microorganism that induces or is capable of inducing physical distress, illness or disease.	Common Policy Verbiage: When Special is shown in the Declarations, Covered Causes of Loss means direct physical loss unless the loss is excluded or limited in this policy.	What about contingent business income?	Contingent business income provides coverage when a supplier has suffered a loss, therefore forcing your business to not be able to function.  The trigger for contingent business income would be a loss to the supplier's property.	If a government authority makes me close my business, does the "Civil Authority" additional coverage trigger coverage?	While a loss does not need to occur to your business for Civil Authority additional coverage to be triggered, a loss does need to occur to another business for there to be coverage.  Again, the Department recommends that you review your policy with your agent.	Common policy verbiage: In this Additional Coverage, Civil Authority, the described premises are premises to which this Coverage Form applies, as shown in the Declarations.  When a Covered Cause of Loss causes damage to property other than property at the described premises, we will pay for the actual loss of Business Income you sustain.	Does my commercial policy cover COVID-19 for my business?	It is very important to review the provisions in your business polices, particularly business income policies.  Here are some things to look for in your policy;	Business income polices reimburse an owner due to loss of income due to a suspension of operations.	Common Policy Verbiage: We will pay for the actual loss of Business Income you sustain due to the necessary "suspension" of your "operations" during the "period of restoration."  The "suspension" must be caused by direct physical loss of or damage to property at premises which are described in the Declarations and for which a Business Income Limit Of Insurance is shown in the Declarations.	The Insurance Department recommends that you contact your agent to review your policy and ask additional questions.	Will my business disruption insurance cover me during a shutdown?	Unfortunately, it's unlikely that you will find coverage through your business disruption coverage.  Generally, the triggering event for coverage would include physical damage; a pandemic is not considered physical damage.  Also, under business disruption coverage there can be Civil Authority coverage, this too generally is triggered by physical damage.	Standard policies also usually contain an exclusion for viral pandemics or pandemics.  These exclusions arose in or around 2003, during the SARs outbreak and are traditionally maintained in the standard language of commercial insurance.  Keep in mind that policies can differ greatly, so it's always important to talk with your licensed insurance agent to clarify exactly what is or is not included in your coverage.	Business interruption insurance coverage protects against losses sustained due to periods of suspended operations; it pays loss of revenue that would have been earned if there was no business interruption.  It typically provides coverage only if a physical loss to property occurs and may have specific exclusions for viral infections such as COVID-19.	Contingent business interruption insurance policies protect against losses from supply chain disruptions but may require the occurrence of property damage to trigger coverage.	Event cancellation insurance provides coverage for expenses arising from delays, rescheduling or cancellations due to unforeseen covered events.  Typically, contingent business interruption and event cancellation insurance policies exclude coverage for communicable diseases, such as COVID-19.	If I am told that I need to stay home because I have tested positive for COVID-19, will my disability insurance policy pay a claim?	No.  Your disability policy will only pay if you meet the definition of disability in the policy and have satisfied any elimination period.  Review your policy closely as there may be various details around elimination periods and how long you are out of work.	Can a life insurance, long-term care insurance, or disability insurance company refuse to sell me a policy if I am diagnosed with COVID-19?	Yes, if the denial is based on their underwriting guidelines and the guidelines comply with North Dakota law.	Can a life insurance company refuse to pay a death benefit if the person dies from an illness related to COVID-19?	A life insurance policy must pay a death benefit based on the policy.  An insurance company may deny claims within two years after the date the policy is issued if there were material misrepresentations on the application.	Does travel insurance cover cancellation of a trip related to COVID-19?	Trip cancellation coverage is subject to the terms and conditions of your policy.  You can review the fulfillment materials you received and the policy itself to see what type of cancellation coverage you purchased.	If I get sick from COVID-19 while I am traveling, will my travel insurance policy pay for my care?	Pursuant to Bulletin 2020-1, unless a travel insurance policy contains an exception applicable to COVID-19, a policy of travel insurance that covers the risks sickness, accident or death incident to travel presumptively must cover such risks relating to COVID-19 including emergency transportation within a foreign country, as well as the costs of returning to the U.S for further treatment.	Is there anything available for assistance for individuals who are on unemployment due to COVID-19 layoffs and cannot afford COBRA coverage or Marketplace )plans?	A short-term medical plan is a temporary health insurance policy typically offering "bare-bones" coverage designed for use during unexpected coverage gaps.  An individual can only hold a short-term medical plan for a short period of time, less than one year.  These plans are nonrenewable.  Furthermore, they do not meet the coverage requirements of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), meaning an individual may have to pay a monetary penalty for not carrying acceptable health insurance coverage.	With the regulations established by the ACA, short-term medical, limited benefit and discount medical plans have become increasingly popular.  However, consumers must be aware of what they are purchasing before replacing their comprehensive major medical coverage with one of these options.  Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.	What if I have Medicare?	Medicare Part B covers many preventive services, such as screenings, vaccines and counseling.  If you meet the eligibility requirements and guidelines for a preventive service, you must be allowed to receive the service.  This is true for Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans, however, your plan's coverage rules may apply.	If you have questions or concerns about your Medicare insurance coverage, contact the State Health Insurance Counseling (SHIC) program by phone at (701) 328-2440 or (800) 247-0560 or via email at.	Can an insurance company refuse to sell me health insurance if I am diagnosed with COVID-19?	During the standard open enrollment period, or if you have a special enrollment period for a health benefit plan, you cannot be denied coverage that qualifies as a health benefit plan under the Affordable Care Act.  Being diagnosed with COVID-19 would not qualify for a special enrollment period.  If you are applying for a short-term medical plan, hospital indemnity plan or other health insurance that is not a health benefit plan under the Affordable Care Act, the insurer can refuse to sell you insurance if you do not meet their underwriting guidelines.	Can my health insurance be canceled if I am diagnosed with COVID-19?	Health insurance may not be canceled based on a new diagnosis.  If you have a short-term medical plan, your claims may be reviewed to see if you had a pre-existing condition.	Will an immunization for COVID-19 be covered in the future?	Pursuant to Bulletin 2020-1, in the event an immunization becomes available for COVID-19, the Department has requested that health carriers immediately cover the immunization at no cost sharing for all covered members.	If I test positive for COVID-19 and I need treatment, will that be covered by my insurance?	Health benefit plans cover medically necessary treatment for disease but the treatment may be subject to deductibles, copayments and coinsurance.  You will need to pay those amounts, even if the care is covered.  If you have a short-term limited benefit plan, there may be additional limits on what is covered.	Will I have to pay out-of-pocket for a COVID-19 test?	If you have a health benefit plan regulated by the State of North Dakota, you should not have to pay for the test.  A health benefit plan is generally defined as an individual (including family), small group, large group, or short-term limited duration plan.  The Department recommends that you contact your health benefit plan at the number listed on your identification card to see if your specific plan is regulated by North Dakota and is not self-funded.	Pursuant to Bulletin 2020-1 issued by Insurance Commissioner Jon Godfread, health carriers have been asked to waive any cost-sharing, including co-pays, deductibles, and coinsurance for Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommended laboratory testing of COVID-19.  In addition, health carriers have also been asked to waive cost-sharing for an in-network provider office visit, urgent care center visit, or an emergency room visit when testing for COVID-19.  This includes short-term limited duration policies but does not include health sharing ministries as those plans are generally not subject to any regulation.	Is my health insurance required to provide coverage for telehealth services if offered by my provider?	A: Yes, Gov Burgum issued an executive order on March 20 that ordered insurance companies to expand telehealth services to consumers.  Insurance carriers must start or continue to provide covered services via telehealth.  Click here to read the bulletin issued by Commissioner Godfread.	Is an employee who telecommutes eligible for workers' compensation benefits?	Yes.  In general, workers' compensation coverage extends to employees who telecommute.  Keep in mind WSI must evaluate the facts and circumstances of each claim before a coverage determination can ultimately be made.	Are employees who contract COVID-19 eligible for workers' compensation benefits?	No.  Diseases to which the general public are exposed are specifically excluded from workers' compensation coverage in North Dakota.  COVID-19 fits into this exclusion, even though it may be contended that an employee contracted COVID-19 while working, the employee is not eligible for workers' compensation benefits for this type of illness, unless s/he is a healthcare worker to first responder.	Governor Burgum signed an executive order that extends workers' compensation benefits to healthcare workers and first responders who have an increased chance of being exposed to COVID-19 while at work.  The order is intended to cover firefighters, law enforcement, ambulance service providers, medical service providers, and volunteer first responders and medical service providers.  The order also provides up to 14 days of medical and wage replacement benefits if these workers must be quarantined.	When does the tax credit apply?	The tax credit applies only to paid wages beginning on the effective date of the law (15 days after its enactment) and will expire on December 31, 2020.  The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is expressly empowered to issue additional guidance implementing these changes, and the bill includes additional funding reserved to the IRS for this purpose.	What is the refundable Income Tax Credit?	Section 7001 of the Act allows a credit against payroll taxes for 100% of the employer-paid qualified sick leave wages paid each calendar quarter, subject to specified limitation.  The amount of sick leave wages taken into account for purposes of the credit may not exceed $200 for any employee ($511 per day employees as defined under the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act) and the aggregate number of days taken into account is limited to 10 over the number of days taken into account for preceding calendar quarters.	Section 7002 of the Act allows a refundable income tax credit for 100% of sick leave amounts of self-employed individuals under the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act.  For other employees, the credit percentage is 67.	Section 7003 of the Act allows an employer a 100% payroll tax credit for qualified family leave wages paid by such employer for each calendar quarter.  The amount of qualified family leave wages that may be considered for each employee is limited to $200 per day and $10,000 for all calendar quarters.	Section 7004 of the Act allows a refundable income tax credit for 100% of the qualified family leave amounts of self-employed individuals, subject to a specified formula for determining the leave amounts.	Section 7005 of the Act provides that wages required to be paid to employees under the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act and the Emergency Family and Medical Leave Expansion Act shall not be considered wages for purposes of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA).  Transfers to specified Social Security trust funds are authorized to cover reductions in revenues.	How does paid sick leave apply to employees that are employed by more than 1 employer (i.e, with more than 1 job)?	Employees who work under a multiemployer collective bargaining agreement into which their employers make contributions to a multiemployer fund, plan, or program may secure pay from such fund, plan, or program based on hours they have worked under the multiemployer collective bargaining agreement.	What is the duration of paid sick time?	Employers are required to provide up to 12 weeks paid leave for an employee who cannot work because the school or child-care provider of that employee's child is closed as a result of a public-health emergency.	Which employers are covered under paid sick leave?	Employers of fewer than 500 workers.  Small businesses with fewer than 50 employees are exempted for from the requirements of this Act when the imposition of such requirements would jeopardize the viability of the business as a going concern.	Which employees are eligible for paid sick leave under this Act?	An employee who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days by the employer.	However, an employer of employees who are healthcare providers or emergency responders may exclude these employees.	What are the requirements a Public Health Emergency Leave?	An employer is required to provide a public health emergency leave to an employee who is unable to work (or telework) due to a need for leave:	To care for the son or daughter under 18 years of age of such employee if the school or place of care has been closed, or the childcare provider of such son or daughter is unavailable, due to a public health emergency.	How does paid sick leave apply to employees that are employed by more than 1 employer (i.e, with more than 1 job)?	Employees who work under a multi-employer collective bargaining agreement into which their employers make contributions to a multi-employer fund, plan, or program may secure pay from such fund, plan, or program based on hours they have worked under the multi-employer collective bargaining agreement.	How do employers alert their employees of the paid sick leave?	Each employer shall post and keep posted, in conspicuous places on the premises of the employer where notices to employees are customarily posted, a notice, to be prepared or approved by the Secretary of Labor, of the requirements described in this Act.	Within seven days from enactment, the Secretary of Labor will provide a model of a notice that meets the above requirements.	What happens if an employer violates the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act?	Failure to pay sick leave will be treated as a minimum wage violation under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).  Remedies for a private cause of action include unpaid wages, liquidated damages (double damages), attorneys' fees and costs.  Employers should be conscious of the heightened risk for a collective action for failure to comply, as well as the potential for personal liability for owners, corporate officers, and other supervisors provided by the FLSA.	Discrimination or retaliation against employees who take leave under the Act or file a complaint relating to the Act is also prohibited.  Employers contemplating cost saving measures, including a reduction in force, layoff, or hours reduction, against employees availing themselves to this benefit are strongly encouraged to seek legal counsel to assess risk.	Does this paid sick leave ever expire?	Yes.  Paid sick leave requirements will automatically expire on December 31, 2020.	How does the statute interact with state and local law?	This leave is to be given in addition to any required paid leave provided by state or local law.	What is the duration of paid sick time?	The number of hours of paid sick time to which an employee is entitled shall be as follows:	For full-time employees, 80 hours.	For part-time employees, a number of hours equal to the number of hours that such employee works, on average, over a 2-week period.	Paid sick time under this Act cannot carry over from 1 year to the next calendar year.	How paid sick time is calculated?	Paid sick time is calculated based on the employee's required compensation and shall not be less than the greater of the following:	The minimum wage rate in effect for such employee in the applicable State or locality, whichever is greater, in which the employee is employed.	What events will trigger coverage?	Employees who are unable to telework may use this leave for COVID-19 related medical leave, including self-isolation due to a positive COVID-19 diagnosis; obtaining a medical diagnosis or care if the employee is experiencing coronavirus symptoms; complying with a recommendation or order of a public health official or healthcare provider; caring for a family member who is self-isolating because of a positive diagnosis or experiencing coronavirus symptoms; or is experiencing any other "substantially similar condition" specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation with the Secretary of Treasury and the Secretary of Labor.	As with the FMLA component above, coverage will also be triggered where an employee must care for a child following the closure of a school or daycare, or other unavailability of childcare due to the coronavirus.	When can employees take paid sick leave?	Immediately, regardless of how long the employee has been employed by an employer.  There is no accrual or waiting period.	Which employees are eligible for paid sick leave?	Full-time or part-time employees are unable to work (or telework) due to a need for leave because of one of the circumstances listed in (Q1).  Unlike the FMLA expansion, there is no tenure requirement.	However, an employer of employees who are healthcare providers or emergency responders may exclude these employees.  Employers appear to have the discretion to exclude health care providers and emergency responders, though this language of the statute is in tension with the delegation of rule-making authority to the Secretary of Labor to determine such exemptions.	Which employers are covered under paid sick leave?	Private, individual and public businesses are eligible with some exclusions:	Private entity or individual with fewer than 500 employees are subject to the statute.	The Secretary of Labor has authority to:	small employers with fewer than 50 employees where the added expense would jeopardize the business.	Under certain circumstances, the requirement to restore employees to their employment will not apply to businesses with fewer than 25 employees.	What are the requirements of paid sick leave?	An employer is required to provide paid sick leave to a full-time or part-time employee who is unable to work (or telework) due to a need for leave because of one of the following circumstances:	The employee is experiencing any other substantially similar condition specified by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Labor.  Except that an employer of an employee who is a health care provider or an emergency responder may elect to exclude such employee from the application of this subsection.