	Idaho Gov Brad Little and the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare issued a statewide Stay-Home Order on Wednesday, March 25, for all Idahoans.	View Statewide Stay-Home Order here.	View list of Essential Services and Businesses here.	View Additional Guidance on the order here.	How long will the order last?	The order covers the entire state and begins immediately.  It will last for at least 21 days.  Gov Little and public health officials will reassess the statewide situation before the end of the 21-day period to determine what happens next.	What can I do?  What's open?						Essential state and local government functions will also remain open, including law enforcement and offices that provide government programs and services.										Can the order be changed?	Yes.  As the situation changes and more information is available, the Governor and public health officials can issue new orders and directives as needed.	How does this order interact with local orders already in place?	This is a statewide order, but cities, counties and local public health districts may enact more stringent measures.	If I don't get a paycheck, I won't be able to buy groceries or pay rent.  Are there services to help me?	Yes.  You may be eligible for public assistance for food, medical care, rent, and more.  Please call 1-877-456-1233 or visit to apply.	Can I get groceries?  Repair a plumbing issue?  Shop for shoes?  What is considered "essential travel?"	Yes, yes, and no, unless you are shopping online for shoes.  All residents of Idaho must self-isolate and work from home as much as possible, unless you work in healthcare, public safety, or an identified "essential business" as defined in the order.	Will restaurants be open even if my community has not restricted them to delivery, takeout, or drive-thru services?	All restaurant dining rooms will be closed.  Check restaurant websites for information on delivery, takeout, and drive-thru services.	Will public transportation be available, like buses?	Only to those who need transportation to provide or obtain essential services.	Do I have to stay home and inside, or can I go outside for exercise and recreation?	Outdoor activity near your home is OK, but you should keep a distance of 6 feet from people outside of your household.  Social distancing requirements are in effect on paths, trails, sidewalks, riverbanks, beaches, parks, and anyplace outside on private or public property where people might gather.  Crowds are a no-no.	Can I drive to a mountain town like McCall or Stanley?  There aren't many people in those communities, so social distancing should be easier.	Generally, no.  The point of the order is to keep people home and slow the spread of COVID-19.  All non-essential travel must be avoided.  Please stay home so you don't overwhelm the limited resources in small towns and communities who are also staying home to slow the spread.	What if I want to have a birthday party for my child?	Consider having it online or postponing it until the order has been lifted.  Non-essential gatherings of any number of people should be avoided.	Do I need to pay my taxes?	Yes, state and federal deadlines have been extended.  All state taxes are now due on June 15.  Federal taxes are due by July 15.	Who will enforce the order?  Can I get a ticket if I'm out for non-essential reasons?	State and local law enforcement will enforce, but they are taking an educational approach with citizens.	How do I report individuals not following the order?	If you believe someone is violating the Stay at Home order, report it to the local authorities.  That may be city police, county sheriff, or Idaho State Police depending on the circumstances.  The Governor, the Department of Health & Welfare, and the Attorney General's Office do not have enforcement authority under the statutes authorizing the order or under the order itself.	Can I still go out to pick up my prescription?	Yes.  You may leave your home to visit a pharmacy.	Can I leave home to care for my elderly parents or friends?  Or a family member or friend who has disabilities?	Yes.  Be sure to follow social distancing guidelines to protect them and you.  If you are sick with any respiratory illness, stay home and find someone else to help care for them.	Can I visit loved ones in the hospital, nursing home, skilled nursing facility, or other residential care facility?	Generally, no.  This is difficult but necessary to protect facility staff and other patients.  There are limited exceptions, such as if you are going to the hospital with someone younger than 18 or who is developmentally disabled and needs assistance.  For most other situations, the order prohibits visitation to these kinds of facilities except at the end-of-life.	Gas prices, milk prices, and water prices appear to have gotten out of control at my local grocery store.  How can I be sure that this isn't price gouging?	Concerns about price gouging should be reported to the Office of the Attorney General's Consumer Protection Division.  Complaints can be filed online here.	Consumers may also contact the Consumer Protection Division at or by calling 1-800-432-3545 (statewide) or (208) 334-2424 (local) to obtain information about price gouging and other consumer matters.	Under Idaho Code §48-603( 19), price gouging investigations by the Attorney General are limited to fuel, food, pharmaceuticals and water for human consumption.  If your complaint falls outside of these categories, the Attorney General lacks the legal authority to investigate.	Does the Governor have the authority to issue a Stay at Home order?	Yes.  The Governor is the Commander of the Militia under Article IV, §4 and Supreme Executive Power is vested within the Governor under Article IV, §5 of the Idaho Constitution.  This authority is codified throughout Idaho Law.  The authority to issue orders such as the Stay at Home Order is found within Chapter 6, Title 46 of the Idaho Code.  Additional authority is found within Chapter 10, Title 46.  The specific statutes granting the Governor authority to issue such an order are Idaho Code §46-601 and Idaho Code §46-1008.  It is important to note that both the Director of the Department of Health and Welfare and local public health districts have authority to issue orders of quarantine and isolation.  Idaho Code §§56-1003( 7) (Director) & 39-415 (Public Health Districts).  The current order is an exercise of the combined authority of the Governor and the Director of the Department of Health Welfare.  Violation of this order could be a misdemeanor.  Idaho Code §56-1003( 7)( c).	Are Idaho units of government still required to follow Idaho's Open Meetings Law?	Yes.  Government is still required to follow the Idaho Open Meetings Law.  Notices and agendas should be posted in compliance with the law.  In a recent proclamation, the Governor only suspended the "in-person" attendance requirement-- but only if the governmental entity can ensure that the public has the opportunity to either listen in via teleconference, observe and listen through streaming, or attend via other online platforms.  If the system for observing and listening is not functioning, government should postpone the meeting until the system is working.  Additionally, there is no authorization within the law for the conduct of meetings or votes within boards by e-mail.  Government should comply with the Open Meetings Law throughout the application of the Governor's orders.	Questions?