	If you are a member of the public and are concerned about getting tested for COVID-19, please contact your primary care provider.
Montana state and local public health officials are monitoring the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) situation very closely.

Call ahead to a healthcare professional if you develop a fever and symptoms of respiratory illness, such as cough or difficulty breathing, and have been in close contact with a person known to have COVID-19 or if you live in or have recently traveled to an area with ongoing spread. Tell your healthcare professional about your recent travel or contact. Your healthcare professional will work with your state’s public health department and CDC to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19. 

You can contact your local county or tribal health department for questions regarding COVID-19, testing or what may be occurring in your community.


What is a coronavirus?
Human coronaviruses are common throughout the world. There are several types of coronaviruses including those that cause symptoms of the common cold. Human coronaviruses commonly cause mild to moderate illness. A novel, or new coronavirus is a strain of coronavirus that has not been identified before. This has happened previously with MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV both of which cause more severe respiratory illnesses.

What is a novel coronavirus?
A novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been previously identified. The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), is not the same as the coronaviruses that commonly circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common cold.

A diagnosis with coronavirus 229E, NL63, OC43, or HKU1 is not the same as a COVID-19 diagnosis. Patients with COVID-19 will be evaluated and cared for differently than patients with common coronavirus diagnosis.

How does COVID-19 spread?
The virus is still being studied and public health officials are learning more each day. To date, it appears that transmission occurs via respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes as is the case with other respiratory illnesses like the common cold or influenza. 

What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
Patients with this novel coronavirus have reported mild to severe respiratory illness with cough, fever, and/or shortness of breath.

How can I help protect myself and my family?
The best way to prevent infection is to avoid being exposed to the virus. The same preventative measures that are recommended during cold and flu season will also help to protect against COVID-19:



