	ondemand_video Today's Daily Press Conference for COVID-19 will begin at 2:30 pm Click Here to Watch Live 																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																																	Home "Topics & Services "Diseases and Conditions "Diseases A-Z "Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) "Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19): Frequently Asked Questions 		A: At this time, there is no evidence that pets or other animals can spread COVID-19 or that they might be a source of infection in the United States.  The thousands of worldwide cases have been human-to-human transmission.			Q: What is 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)?	A: There are many types of human coronaviruses including some that commonly cause mild upper-respiratory tract illnesses.  COVID-19 is a new disease, caused by a novel (or new) coronavirus not previously seen in humans.  COVID-19 was identified as the cause of an outbreak of respiratory illness first detected in Wuhan, China, that has spread around the world, including the United States and all 50 states.  The latest situation summary updates are available on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention web page 2019 Novel Coronavirus.	Q: What is the source of the virus?	A: Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in people and many different species of animals, including camels, cattle, cats and bats.  Early on, many of the patients at the epicenter of the COVID-19 outbreak in China had some link to a large seafood and live animal market, suggesting animal-to-person spread.  Later, a growing number of patients reportedly did not have exposure to animal markets, indicating person-to-person spread.  Person-to-person spread was subsequently reported outside China, including the United States.	Q What does it mean that COVID-19 is a Global Pandemic?	A: A pandemic is a global outbreak of disease.  Pandemics happen when a new virus emerges to infect people and can spread between people.  Because there is little to no pre-existing immunity against the new virus, it spreads worldwide.  The virus that causes COVID-19 is infecting people and spreading easily from person-to-person.  Cases have been detected in most countries worldwide, including the United States, which has recorded cases in all 50 states.	 Q: What are the symptoms of COVID-2019?	A: People who are infected with COVID-19 have developed mild to severe respiratory illness with symptoms including fever, cough, shortness of breath, and potentially respiratory distress 2-14 days after exposure.  Call your health care provider for medical advice if you think you have been exposed to COVID-19 and develop a fever and symptoms, such as cough or difficulty breathing.	Q: How does COVID-19 spread?	A: COVID-19 has been shown to spread between people.  Someone who is actively sick with COVID-19 can spread the illness to others, so CDC recommends these patients be isolated either in the hospital or at home (depending on the severity of their illness) until they are better and no longer pose a risk of infecting others.  Human coronaviruses typically spread through the air by coughing and sneezing.  How long someone is actively sick can vary so the decision on when to release someone from isolation is made on a case-by-case basis in consultation with doctors, infection prevention and control experts, and public health officials and involves considering specifics of each situation, including disease severity, illness signs and symptoms, and results of laboratory testing for that patient.	Current CDC guidance for when it is OK to release someone from isolation is made on a case by case basis and includes meeting all of the following requirements:	The patient is free from fever without the use of fever-reducing medications for at least 72 hours.	The patient is no longer showing symptoms, including cough.	It has been at least 7 days since the onset of the patient's illness.	This recommendation is to help prevent most, but may not prevent all, instances of secondary spread.  According to CDC, the risk of transmission after recovery is likely very substantially less than that during illness.	Someone who has been released from isolation is not considered to pose a risk of infection to others.	Q: How is COVID-19 diagnosed?	A: Diagnosis occurs through laboratory testing of respiratory specimens.  Some coronavirus strains cause the common cold and patients tested by their health care provider may test positive for these types.	Q: Can someone spread the virus without being sick?	A: People are thought to be most contagious when they are most symptomatic (the sickest).  Some spread might be possible before people show symptoms.  There have been reports of this occurring with COVID-19, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.	Q: Will warm weather stop the outbreak of COVID-19?	It is not yet known whether weather and temperature impact the spread of COVID-19.  Some other viruses, like the common cold and flu, spread more during cold weather months but that does not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses during other months.  At this time it is not known whether the spread of COVID-19 will decrease when weather becomes warmer.  There is much more to learn about the transmissibility, severity and other features associated with COVID-19 and investigations are ongoing.	Q: What does the Governor's stay at home order mean?	A stay at home order directs Illinoisans to stop movements outside of their homes beyond essential needs.  By limiting social interactions, the chance of spreading COVID-19 is greatly reduced.	Q: Why is this stay at home order necessary?	The COVID-19 pandemic presents an unprecedented health threat.  If Illinois took no action to combat the spread, current modeling indicates many thousands of people in our state could die.	Q: When is it okay for me to leave my home?		:Health and safety --obtaining emergency services, visiting a healthcare professional, picking up medical supplies or medications 		Supplies and Services --shopping for groceries, gasoline, take-out food, products necessary to maintain the safety, sanitation and essential operations of homes 	Care of others --travel to care for the elderly, family member, persons with disabilities or underlying health conditions, a friend or pet in another household 	Essential businesses --travel to perform work providing essential products and services, such as health care and public health, public safety, governmental functions, banks, food and agriculture, and media 	Funerals --permissible provided the gathering consists of no more than 10 attendees and the space utilized allows for social distancing (6 feet spacing between people).  If possible, venues should make accommodations for remote attendance If you do leave home, stay at least 6 feet apart for other people.  Everyone is encouraged to stay active outside during this time, provided they practice safe social distancing.	Q: What is social distancing?	A: Social distancing is deliberately increasing the physical space between people to avoid spreading illness.  Staying at least 6 feet away from other people reduces the chances of catching COVID-19.  Other examples of social distancing with the goal of avoiding crowds, crowded spaces and mass gatherings include working from home instead of the office, closing schools and switching to on-line classes, visiting loved ones by electronic devices instead of in person, suspending worship services, and canceling or postponing large meetings.	Q: What is the state recommending for social distancing?	Gov JB Pritzker has prohibited public and private gatherings of 10 or more people through April 30.  This includes community, civic, public leisure, faith-based events, sporting events with spectators, concerts, conventions and any similar event or activity that brings together 10 or more people in a room or space at the same.  The governor also, by Executive Order, closed schools, bars and restaurants through April 30.  Restaurant kitchens can remain open and put in place drive-thru, curbside pickup and delivery options.  The Illinois Gaming Board has suspended video gaming through April 30.	Q: Can I go outdoors?	A: Yes, go outdoors for fresh air and exercise.  Ride a bike, walk the dog, go for a hike, jog.  Social distancing does not mean staying indoors, it means avoiding close contact with people.  Remember to wash your hands any time you enter from outdoors and before you eat.	Q: Can I go to the supermarket?	A: Yes.  Buy as much as you need to lessen the number of trips and try and shop when the store is least likely to be crowded.  Some grocery stores have designated special hours for the elderly (over age 60), pregnant women and those with compromised immune systems to lessen their exposure to large crowds and possible exposure to COVID-19.	Q: How can I help protect myself?	A: Follow these tips to help prevent COVID-19:	Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing; going to the bathroom; and before eating or preparing food.  If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.	Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	Avoid close contact with people who are sick with respiratory symptoms.	Stay home when you are sick.	Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.	If you have not already done so, discuss influenza vaccination with your health care provider to help protect you against seasonal influenza.	Q: Should I wear a facemask?	A: If you are sick: You should wear a facemask when you are around other people (e.g, sharing a room or vehicle) and before you enter a health care provider's office.  If you are unable to wear a facemask (for example, because it causes trouble breathing), then you should do your best to cover your coughs and sneezes, and people who are caring for you should wear a facemask if they enter your room.	If you are not sick: You do not need to wear a facemask unless you are caring for someone who is sick (and they are not able to wear a facemask).  Facemasks may be in short supply and they should be saved for caregivers.	Q: What steps should parents take to protect children?	A; This is a new virus and we are still learning about it, but so far, there does not seem to be a lot of illness in children.  Most illness, including serious illness, is happening in adults of working age and older adults.  Discourage children and teens from gathering in other public places while school is dismissed to help slow the spread of COVID-19 in the community.  Encourage frequent handwashing and follow other prevention tips.	Q: Who is at higher risk?	A: COVID-19 is a new disease and we are learning more about it every day.  Older adults and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions may be at higher risk for more serious complications from COVID-19.  Based upon available information to date, the CDC has said those most at risk include:				People of any age with the following underlying medical conditions, particularly those that are not well controlled:												)Q: Should I clean "high touch" surfaces?	A: Yes.  Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces, such as tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, faucets and sinks.  If surfaces are dirty, clean them using detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection.  To disinfect, most common EPA-registered household disinfectants will work.	Q: Is there a vaccine?	A: No.  Currently, there is not a vaccine for COVID-19.	Q: What are the treatments for COVID-19?	A: Currently, there are no specific treatments recommended for illnesses caused by COVID-19.  Medical care is supportive to help relieve symptoms.	Q: Can I get COVID-19 from my pet?	A: At this time, there is no evidence that pets or other animals can spread COVID-19 or that they might be a source of infection in the United States.  The thousands of worldwide cases have been human-to-human transmission.	Q: Can I give COVID-19 to my pet?	A: To date, there is no evidence of human-to-pet illness in pets.  There have been no reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19.	Q: Do I need to get my pet tested for COVID-19?	A: No.  At this time, routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not recommended.	Q: Can animals carry the virus that causes COVID-19 on their skin or fur?	A: At this time, there is no evidence that the virus that causes COVID-19 can spread to people from the skin or fur of pets.  Talk to your veterinarian about the best ways to care for your pet.	Q: Should I avoid contact with pets or other animals if I am sick with COVID-19?	A: You should restrict contact with pets and other animals while you are sick with COVID-19, just like you would around other people.  Although there have not been reports of pets or other animals becoming sick with COVID-19, it is still recommended that people sick with COVID-19 limit contact with animals until more information is known about the new coronavirus.  When possible, have another member of your household care for your animals while you are sick.  If you are sick with COVID-19, avoid contact with your pet, including petting, snuggling, being kissed or licked, and sharing food.  If you must care for your pet or be around animals while you are sick, wash your hands before and after you interact with pets.	Q: What should health care providers, laboratories and health departments do?	A: Health care providers and laboratories should report suspect COVID-19 cases immediately (within 3 hours) to their local health department, who should report cases to IDPH within the same time frame.  For recommendations and guidance, see the IDPH Coronavirus Page or the CDC's web page 2019 Novel Coronavirus.	Q: What are public health departments in Illinois doing about this situation?	A: IDPH and local health departments have implemented heightened surveillance to identify and test patients most likely to have COVID-19.  Public health experts are communicating with and educating health care providers and other public health partners about the current situation.  Measures are being developed to prevent the spread of illness in Illinois.  Frequent communication with the public will be available through the IDPH Coronavirus Page.				P: ¿Que es el nuevo Coronavirus (COVID-19)?	R: Hay muchos tipos de coronavirus que afectan a los humanos incluyendo algunos que frecuentemente causan enfermedades leves del tracto respiratorio superior.  COVID-19 es una nueva enfermedad causada por un nuevo coronavirus no anteriormente visto en ser humanos.  El virus COVID-19 detectado por primera vez en Wuhan, China donde fue identificado como la causa de un brote de enfermedades respiratorias y el virus se ha propagado al rededor del mundo, incluyendo los Estados Unidos y todos los 50 estados.  Las actualizaciones mas recientes del resumen de la situacion estan disponibles en la pagina web de Los Centros para el Control y la Prevencion de Enfermedades (CDC por sus siglas en ingles) Enfermedad del coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) 	P: ¿Cual es la fuente del virus?	R: Los coronavirus son una familia grande de virus que son comun en personas y en diferentes especies de animales, incluyendo los camellos, el ganado (vacas), los gatos y los murcielagos.  Al principio, muchos pacientes en el epicentro del brote de COVID-19 en China tenian una conexion a un mercado grande de mariscos y animales vivos, sugiriendo transmision de animal a persona.  Despues, un creciente numero de pacientes reportaron no tener contacto con mercados de animales, indicando transmision de persona a persona.  Posteriormente, la transmision de persona a persona fue reportada afuera de China, incluyendo a los Estados Unidos.	P ¿Que significa que COVID-19 es una pandemia global?	R: Una pandemia es un brote global de una enfermedad.  Las pandemias ocurren cuando aparece un virus nuevo que infecta a las personas y se puede transmitir de persona a persona.  Por que existe poquito a no inmunidad contra el nuevo virus, se propaga mundial.  El virus que causa COVID-19 esta infectando a las personas y se esta propagando facilmente de persona-a-persona.  Se han detectado casos en la mayoria de los paises del mundo, incluyendo los Estados Unidos, el cual ha documentado casos en todos los 50 estados.	P: ¿Cuales son los sintomas de COVID-19?	R: Las personas infectadas con COVID-19 han desarrollado enfermedad de nivel leve a grave con sintomas que incluyen fiebre, tos, dificultad para respirar, y potencialmente agotamiento respiratorio 2-14 dias despues de la exposicion.  Si usted piensa que fue expuesto al virus COVID-19 y desarrolla fiebre y sintomas como tos o dificultad para respirar, llame a su doctor para recibir consejo medico.	P: ¿Como se propaga el COVID-19?	R: El COVID-19 ha demostrado propagarse entre personas.  La persona que tiene la enfermedad activa (muestra sintomas) puede transmitir la enfermedad a otras personas.  Por eso, los CDC recomiendan que estos pacientes sean aislados en el hospital o en casa (dependiendo de la gravedad de su enfermedad) hasta que esten mejor y ya no representen un riesgo de infeccion para los demas.	El coronavirus en ser humanos tipicamente se propaga a traves de las gotitas respiratorias que se producen cuando una persona infectada tose o estornuda.  El tiempo que uno tiene la enfermedad activa (muestra sintomas) puede variar asi que la decision de cuando se le puede permitir salir del aislamiento debera tomarse segun cada caso en particular y en consulta con medicos, expertos en la prevencion y el control de infecciones, y funcionarios de salud publica.  Esta decision implicara tener en cuenta las caracteristicas especificas de cada situacion, lo cual incluye la gravedad de la enfermedad, sus sennales de enfermedad y sintomas, y los resultados de las pruebas de laboratorio del paciente.	La guia actual de los CDC acerca de cuando esta bien permitirle a alguien salir del aislamiento es de evaluar caso por caso y cumplir todos los requisitos mencionados a continuacion:	El paciente no tiene fiebre, sin el uso de medicamentos para bajar la fiebre.	El paciente ya no muestra sintomas, incluida la tos.	El paciente obtuvo dos resultados negativos en dos pruebas respiratorias consecutivas recolectadas con un minimo de 24 horas entre ellas.	Cuando la persona sale del aislamiento ya no representa un riesgo de infeccion para los demas.	P: ¿Como se diagnostica el COVID-19?	R: El diagnostico ocurre haciendo pruebas de especimenes respiratorios en un laboratorio.  Algunas cepas de coronavirus causan el resfriado comun y los pacientes evaluados por su doctor pueden tener resultados positivos para estos tipos de cepas.	P: ¿Puede alguien transmitir el virus sin estar enfermo?	R: Se cree que personas son mas contagiosas cuando estan sintomaticas (lo mas enfermizo).  La transmision tambien es posible antes de demostrar sintomas.  Hay reportes de que esto ha ocurrido con COVID-19, pero no se cree que esta sea la manera principal de transmision.	P: ¿El tiempo calido detendra el brote de COVID-19?	R: Aun se desconoce si el tiempo y la temperatura afectaran la propagacion del COVID-19.  Algunos otros virus, como los del resfriado comun o de la influenza (gripe), se propagan mas durante los meses frios, pero eso no significa que es imposible enfermarse a causa de uno de esos virus durante otros meses.  En estos momentos, no se sabe si la propagacion del COVID-19 se reducira cuando el tiempo se ponga mas calido.  Hay mucho mas que aprender acerca de la transmisibilidad, gravedad y otras caracteristicas asociadas al COVID-19 y las investigaciones estan en curso.	P: ¿Que es distanciamiento social?	A: Distanciamiento social es deliberadamente aumentar el espacio fisico entre personas para evitar la transmision de enfermedad.  Mantener una distancia de por lo menos 6 pies reduce el riesgo de contraer el virus COVID-19.  Otros ejemplos de distancia social, con la meta de evitar grupos grandes de personas, espacios concurridos y reuniones grandes.  Se recomienda trabajar desde su hogar en lugar de la oficina, cerrar escuelas y cambiar a clases por internet, visitar a seres queridos por medio de aparatos electronicos en vez de en persona, suspender servicios religiosos, y cancelar o posponer reuniones grandes.	P: ¿Que esta recomendando el estado sobre la distancia social?	R: El Gobernador JB Pritzker ha prohibido reuniones publicas y privadas de 50 personas o mas hasta el 1 de mayo.  Esto incluye eventos comunitarios, civicos, ocio publico, eventos religiosos, eventos deportivos con espectadores, conciertos, convenciones y otros eventos similares o actividades que reunen 50 o mas personas en un sitio o espacio al mismo tiempo (asesoramientos por los CDC recomiendan que las personas eviten grupos de mas de 10 personas) 	P: ¿Puedo salir al aire libre?	R: Si, salga al aire libre para respirar aire fresco y hacer ejercicio.  Monte una bicicleta, camine con su perro, salga a correr.  La distancia social no significa quedarse en su casa, significa evitar contacto cercano con otras personas.  Recuerde lavarse las manos al volver al hogar y antes de comer.	P: ¿Puedo ir al supermercado?	R: Si.  Compre lo necesario para reducir el numero de viajes y trate de ir de compras cuando la tienda tiene menos personas.  Algunos supermercados tienen horas especiales designadas para personas mayores de edad (60 annos o mas), mujeres embarazadas y personas con defensas debiles, para reducir su exposicion a grupos grandes y la posibilidad de exposicion a COVID-19.	P: ¿Como puedo protegerme?	R: Siga los siguientes consejos para prevenir COVID-19.	Lavese las manos frecuentemente con agua y jabon por un minimo de 20 segundos, especialmente despues de soplarse la nariz, toser o estornudar, despues de usar el banno y antes de comer y preparar comida.  Si no tiene jabon y agua disponible, use un desinfectante que contenga por lo menos 60% de alcohol.	No se toque los ojos, nariz, y boca sin lavarse las manos.	Evite el contacto cercano con personas enfermas con sintomas respiratorios.	Quedese en casa cuando este enfermo.	Cubrase con un pannuelo de papel al toser o estornudar, y despues tire el pannuelo a la basura.	Limpie y desinfecte los objetos y las superficies que se tocan con frecuencia.	Si no ha hablado con su medico sobre la vacuna contra la influenza, hagalo ahora para protegerse contra la gripe estacional.	P: ¿Debo usar mascarilla?	Si esta enfermo: Debe usar mascarilla cuando este cerca de otras personas (por ejemplo, compartiendo un cuarto o un automovil) y antes de entrar a la oficina de su medico.  Si no le es posible usar mascarilla (porque le causa dificultad para respirar), entonces haga todo lo posible para cubrir su tos o estornudos, y las personas cuidandolo deben de usar mascarilla cuando entren a su cuarto.	Si no esta enfermo: Si esta cuidando a una persona enferma (y ellos no pueden usar mascarilla), entonces usted debe usar una mascarilla.  Puede ser que haya cantidades limitadas de mascarillas y se deben guardar para las personas que cuidan de gente enferma.	P: ¿Que pasos deben tomar padres para proteger a sus hijos?	R: COVID-19 es un virus nuevo y aun estamos aprendiendo sobre el.  Hasta el momento, no hay muchos ninnos afectados.  La mayoria de los afectados, incluyendo enfermedades graves, han ocurrido en adultos en edad de trabajar y en ancianos.  Recomendamos que los ninnos y jovenes no se reunan cuando salgan de la escuela para modo de prevenir la transmision del virus en la comunidad.  Recuerdeles que se laven sus manos frecuentemente y tambien sigan los otros consejos de prevencion.	P: ¿Quien son las personas en alto riesgo?	R: El virus COVID-19 es una nueva enfermedad y estamos aprendiendo mas sobre ella todos los dias.  En los adultos mayores y personas con ciertas condiciones medicas, el riesgo es mas alto y estas condiciones medicas pueden empeorar con el COVID-19.  En acuerdo con la informacion disponible hasta las fecha, CDC dice que las siguientes condiciones son de mas alto riesgo:				Cualquier persona, sin importar la edad, con las siguientes condiciones medicas en particular si no estan siendo controladas con tratamientos:											)P: ¿Debo de limpiar las superficies que se tocan con frecuencia?	R: Si.  Limpiar y desinfectar a menudo objetos que tocan con frecuencia como mesas, manillas de puerta, interruptor de luz, encimeras, manijas, escritorios, telefonos, teclados, la taza del inodoro, las llaves de agua y lavabos.  Si las superficies estan sucias, limpie con detergente o jabon y agua antes de desinfectar.  Para desinfectar, los productos desinfectantes mas comunes que estan registrados en el EPA son eficaces.	P: ¿Existe una vacuna?	R: No.  En este momento, no hay vacuna para COVID-19.	P: ¿Que tratamiento existe para el COVID-19?	R: En este momento, no existe un tratamiento especifico recomendado para enfermedades causadas por el COVID-19.  La atencion medica ayuda a aliviar los sintomas.	P: ¿Que deben hacer los medicos o proveedores de salud, los laboratorios y los departamentos de salud?	R: Los medicos o proveedores de salud y los laboratorios deben de reportar casos sospechosos de COVID-19 inmediatamente (dentro de 3 horas) al departamento de salud local, quienes notifican a IDPH inmediatamente (dentro de 3 horas) tambien.  Para recomendaciones y guias, vea la pagina de IDPH Coronavirus o la pagina web del CDC 2019 Novel Coronavirus.	P: ¿Que estan haciendo los departamentos de salud publica en Illinois al respeto de esta situacion?	R: IDPH y los departamentos locales de salud publica han implementado vigilancia intensificada para identificar y examinar pacientes mas probables a tener COVID-19.  Los expertos de salud publica estan comunicandose y educando a los proveedores medicos y otros socios de salud publica acerca de la situacion corriente.  Se estan desarrollando medidas para prevenir la propagacion de la enfermedad en Illinois.  Comunicaciones dirigidas al publico se haran disponibles por la pagina de IDPH Coronavirus.																																																	Fear and anxiety during these times can be overwhelming and cause strong emotions.	The Stay at Home Order has been extended until the end of April.