 What is COVID-19?
 Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is
 a respiratory illness that can spread from
 person to person. The virus that causes
 COVID-19 is a novel coronavirus that was
 first identified during an investigation into
 an outbreak in Wuhan, China.
How does COVID-19 spread?
COVID-19 spreads the same way the flu
 and other respiratory diseases spread,
 through respiratory droplets produced
 when an infected person coughs or
 or sneezes.
 What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
Patients with COVID-19 have mild to severe
 respiratory illness with symptoms of fever,
 cough and shortness of breath. In severe
 cases, patients with COVID-19 have
 developed pneumonia in both lungs.
 Is there a vaccine for COVID-19?
 There is currently no vaccine to protect
 against COVID-19. The best way to prevent
 infection is to avoid being exposed to the
 virus that causes COVID-19.
Who can be infected with COVID-19?
 Diseases can make anyone sick regardless
 of their race or ethnicity. People of Asian
 descent, including Chinese Americans, are
 not more likely to get COVID-19 than any
 other American. Help stop fear by letting
 people know that being of Asian descent
 does not increase the chance of getting or
 spreading COVID-19.
 How can I help protect myself
 from COVID-19?
 The best way to prevent infection is to
 avoid being exposed to the virus that
 causes COVID-19. The same measures
 that are urged to prevent the spread of
 any respiratory virus are increasingly
 important for all Georgians:
 Wash your hands often with soap and
 warm water for at least 20 seconds. If
 soap and water are not available, use an
 alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
 Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth
 with unwashed hands.
 Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue,
 then throw the tissue in the trash.
 Stay home if you’re sick.
 Avoid close contact with people who
 are sick.
 Get a flu shot!
 Clean and disinfect frequently touched
 objects and surfaces.
How is COVID-19 treated?
There is no specific antiviral treatment
 recommended for COVID-19. People with
 COVID-19 should receive supportive care
 to help relieve symptoms.
 People who think they may have been
 exposed to COVID-19 should call their
 healthcare provider before going to any
 provider’s office, emergency department
 or urgent care.


What to do if you are sick with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19)

If you have tested positive for COVID-19 infection, or if a healthcare provider or public health official has told you that COVID-19 infection is suspected because you have been exposed to a person with COVID- 19, you must follow the home isolation instructions below. These steps will help prevent the disease from spreading to others in your household and community. You should also follow these instructions if you suspect that you have COVID-19, even if you do not have a known exposure. The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, cough, and/or shortness of breath.

Notify your close contacts of your illness so they can also monitor themselves for illness, provide them with the information on pages 3 and 4 of this document:  
You must not go outside your home unless you need medical care or in the event of an emergency, such as a fire. Do not go to work, school, or public areas, and do not use public transportation, Uber/Lyft, or taxis. If seeking medical care, always call ahead to alert the healthcare provider that you have or may have COVID-19.

As much as possible, you should stay in a different room from other people in your home. You should use a separate bathroom, if available. The CDC currently recommends keeping 6 feet between yourself and others, if possible. Prohibit visitors to your home as much as possible.

You should wear a face mask when you are around other people (e.g., sharing a room or vehicle), pets, and before you enter a healthcare provider’s office. If you are not able to wear a face mask (for example, because it causes trouble breathing), then people who live with you should not stay in the same room with you, or they should wear a face mask if they enter your room.
   
Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If handwashing with soap is not possible,use alcohol-based sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol to thoroughly cover all surfaces of your hands, thenrub until they feel dry. Avoid touching your mouth, eyes, or nose with unwashed hands. If you cough orsneeze, do so into your elbow or use a tissue to cover your mouth.

You should not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels, bedding, or other items with other people in your home. After using these items, you should wash them thoroughly with soap and water.

Use a household cleaning spray or wipe, according to the label instructions. Labels contain instructions for safe and effective use of the cleaning product including precautions you should take when applying the product, such as wearing gloves and making sure you have good ventilation during use of the product.

If you develop worsening symptoms (i.e., difficulty breathing) you should seek prompt medicalattention. Be sure to call your healthcare provider before seeking care and tell them that you have been diagnosed with COVID-19. Wear a facemask before entering the healthcare facility to protect other patients and staff from being exposed.

If you have a medical emergency, call 911. Notify emergency services that you have COVID-19 infection. Put on a facemask if possible before emergency services arrive.

If you think you have been exposed to someone who was sick with COVID-19, follow the steps below to monitor your health, and avoid spreading the disease to others if you get sick. All people who get sick with fever, cough or shortness of breath (even if your symptoms are very mild), should stay at home and away from other people for 72 hours after fever is gone and other symptoms have improved. Specific guidance for close contacts of COVID-19 cases can be found below.

What is coronavirus disease (COVID-19)?
COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by a new virus called SARS-CoV-2. The most common symptoms of the disease are fever, cough, and shortness of breath. Most people with COVID-19 will have mild disease but some people will get sicker and may need to be hospitalized.
How do I know if I was exposed?
You generally need to be in close contact with a sick person to get infected. Close contact includes:
Being in direct contact with secretions from a sick person with COVID-19 (e.g., being coughed on, kissing, sharing utensils, etc.).
If you are not aware that you had close contact with a sick person with COVID-19, you are at lower risk for infection. However, the COVID-19 virus is circulating in Georgia and you should take steps to protect yourself. Wash hands often with soap and water, use hand sanitizer, and avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands. Disinfect frequently touched surfaces in your home daily. Maintain distance from others especially those who are sick.
What should I do if I am a close contact to someone with COVID-19 but am not sick?
You should monitor your health for fever, cough and shortness of breath during the 14 days after the last day you were in close contact with the sick person with COVID-19. You should not go to work or school and should avoid public places for 14 days.
What should I do if I am a close contact to someone with COVID-19 and get sick?
If you get sick with fever, cough or shortness of breath (even if your symptoms are very mild), you should stay at home and away from other people until.

In addition: Notify your close contacts of your illness so they can also monitor themselves for illness, provide
them a copy of this document.
If you are age 60 years or over, pregnant, or have medical conditions, you may be at increased
risk of serious infection and should notify your physician’s office that you were exposed to COVID-19. Call ahead to discuss, do not just go to the office. They may want to monitor your health more closely or test you for COVID-19. Your healthcare provider is a good source of
medical advice.
 If you do not have a high-risk condition but want medical advice, you can call your healthcare
provider and tell them that you were exposed to someone with COVID-19. Your healthcare provider can help you decide if you need to be evaluated in person.
There are currently no medications to treat COVID-19. If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, notify the dispatch personnel that you may have been exposed to COVID-19. If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive or immediately after they arrive.


What is COVID-19?
What are coronaviruses? 
Coronaviruses are a large group of viruses that can cause illness in animals and humans. Some coronaviruses commonly circulate in the United States and usually cause upper respiratory symptoms such as cough or runny nose, although some can cause more serious illness. The 2019 novel (new) coronavirus causes the illness coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).

What is COVID-19?
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a disease that was identified in Wuhan, China, and is now being spread throughout the world. People are encouraged to take common-sense precautions to prevent the spread of all infectious diseases, including COVID-19.  

Wash hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds at a time.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
Avoid close contact with people who are ill.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.
Do not reuse tissue after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.
Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched.
How does COVID-19 spread?
Coronaviruses like COVID-19 are most often spread through the air by coughing or sneezing, through close personal contact (including touching and shaking hands) or through touching your nose, mouth or eyes before washing your hands. Learn more from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) about how COVID-19 spreads and how to protect yourself and your community from getting and spreading respiratory illnesses. 


Symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, cough, and shortness of breath. Symptoms may appear 2-14 days after exposure.

The State of Georgia has a COVID-19 hotline. If you believe that you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 or have been exposed to the novel coronavirus, please contact your primary care doctor, an urgent care clinic, or your local federally qualified healthcare center. Please do not show up unannounced at an emergency room or health care facility. In the event of an emergency call 9-1-1. 

There are some common-sense measures everyone can take to protect themselves and others from the spread of respiratory illnesses including coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).

Wash hands frequently with soap and water for at least 20 seconds at a time.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
Avoid close contact with people who are ill.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze.
Do not reuse tissue after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose.
Clean and disinfect surfaces that are frequently touched.
It is also good practice to start being more aware of the number of times a day your hands touch an object or hard surface and then touch your face without being washed. Limiting the exposure of your nose, mouth, and eyes to unwashed hands can help to protect from the spread of all germs and illnesses.

It is not recommended that people wear masks if they are well or stockpile them. Masks should be worn by people who are sick to prevent the spread of infection.  

DPH has also provided guidance on considerations of people with disabilities and other access and functional needs for COVID-19. 

People at higher risk for severe illness
Older adults and people who have severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney disease and those with weakened immune systems seem to be at higher risk for more serious COVID-19 illness. Early data suggest older people are twice as likely to have serious COVID-19 illness. Learn more.

Pregnant women and children
Some pregnant women may be more susceptible to viral respiratory infections, including COVID-19. There is no evidence that children are more susceptible to COVID-19. The CDC has information specifically for pregnant women and children.

People who have recently traveled outside the US
If you have recently traveled to any country with a Level 2 or Level 3 Travel Health Notice for COVID-19 and are experiencing fever and respiratory symptoms, you should call your doctor or health department and describe your symptoms and where you traveled.

People who think they've been exposed to COVID-19
If you think you may have been exposed to the COVID-19 and develop symptoms, you may need to seek medical attention. Learn more about exposure and symptoms.

Household preparedness
The CDC recommends households have a plan of action to prepare for a COVID-19 outbreak. People should think about having daily necessities and medications to last about two weeks, in case they need to isolate. Massive stock piling of supplies is not necessary. 

Individuals and families should have a plan in case they need to miss work due to illness or need to care for a sick family member. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has also released a list of cleaning products to prevent and reduce the spread of COVID-19.

More information on household planning is available from the CDC.

Managing overall health
Make sure you are prioritizing your overall wellness and taking steps to reduce stress and anxiety. Tips to reduce anxiety and stress include trying to keep things in perspective, getting the facts from reliable sources, communicating with your children or family and loved ones and keeping connected with your support system.

Don’t hesitate to seek additional help. If you need support there are resources available: Optum has a toll-free 24-hour Emotional Support Help Line at for people who may be experiencing anxiety or stress around COVID-19. 
The National Suicide Prevention Hotline offers free and confidential support for people in distress, prevention and crisis resources and best practices for professionals.
The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration has also provided tips for taking care of your behavioral health during social distancing, quarantine and isolation from an infectious disease outbreak like COVID-19. The National Child Traumatic Stress Network has guidance for helping families cope with COVID-19, and the World Health Organization has published a resource for mental health considerations during the COVID-19 outbreak. The CDC has information on managing anxiety and stress during the COVID-19 outbreak.

Information
It is important to make sure you are getting reliable information about COVID-19 from sources like DPH and the CDC.

If you believe that you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 or have been exposed to the novel coronavirus, please contact your primary care doctor or an urgent care clinic. Please do not show up unannounced at an emergency room or health care facility.

 
