What are the symptoms and complications of COVID-19?
Current symptoms reported for patients with COVID-19 have included mild to severe respiratory illness with fever cough, and difficulty breathing. Read the CDC's guide: COVID-19 Symptoms.

How does COVID19 spread?
The virus spreads largely by respiratory droplets. These spread by coughing, sneezing, or through respiratory secretions. 

The virus that causes COVID-19 is spreading from person-to-person. Someone who is actively sick with COVID-19 can spread the illness to others. That is why CDC recommends that these patients be isolated either in the hospital or at home (depending on how sick they are) until they are better and no longer pose a risk of infecting others.

How long someone is actively sick can vary so the decision on when to release someone from isolation is made on a case-by-case basis in consultation with doctors, infection prevention and control experts, and public health officials and involves considering specifics of each situation including disease severity, illness signs and symptoms, and results of laboratory testing for that patient.

Current CDC guidance for when it is OK to release someone from isolation is made on a case by case basis and includes meeting all of the following requirements: The patient is free from fever without the use of fever-reducing medications. The patient is no longer showing symptoms, including cough. The patient has tested negative on at least two consecutive respiratory specimens collected at least 24 hours apart. Someone who has been released from isolation is not considered to pose a risk of infection to others.

Is there a vaccine?
There is currently no vaccine to protect against COVID-19. The best way to prevent infection is to avoid being exposed to the virus that causes COVID-19.

Is there a treatment?
There is no specific antiviral treatment for COVID-19. Studies are currently ongoing to determine the efficacy of different antiviral treatments. People with COVID-19 can seek medical care to help relieve symptoms.

Should I be tested?
If you are a close contact of someone with COVID-19 or you are a resident in a community where there is ongoing spread of COVID-19 and develop symptoms of COVID-19, call your healthcare provider and tell them about your symptoms and your exposure. They will decide whether you need to be tested, but keep in mind that there is no treatment for COVID-19 and people who are mildly ill may be able to isolate and care for themselves at home.

You can also call 2-1-1, a 24-hour state-supported telephone hotline.

What should I do if someone in my household is quarantined?
Establish a room (and a bathroom if possible) which only the quarantined person can use.
The quarantined person should not leave home at all, except for urgent medical care. If urgent care is needed, they should wear a surgical mask at all times while outside of the home. Do not take buses, subways or ride shares like Uber or Lyft. Use a personal vehicle or call an ambulance to get to the provider’s location. And call ahead to your provider so they can be ready.All household members should practice strict personal hygiene. That means washing your hands frequently with soap and warm water. When you cough or sneeze, use a tissue every time. Then wash your hands.Do not share plates, glasses, cups, or utensils. Wash all these items in a dishwasher or with dishwashing liquid and warm water.
Wipe down frequently used surfaces with a household disinfecting cleaner – especially if they’ve come in contact with bodily fluids like spit, mucus, urine, feces, or vomit.
Do not allow visitors in your home. All household members should monitor their own health and call their healthcare provider if they develop symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 (e.g., fever, cough, shortness of breath).

In addition, the CDC has provided a list of recommendations for how to best care for someone at home which can be found on the CDC website.

Is it safe to attend events and gatherings?
The Department of Public Health has posted recommendations to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, which are available here: COVID-19 Prevention and Treatment.

What is the limit on the number of people in gatherings?
As of March 23rd, Governor Baker has restricted gatherings to no more than 10 people.​ Read more: March 23 Press Release.

Is it safe to travel/fly in the United States?
Currently, there are no travel restrictions for traveling within the United States. However, the situation is rapidly changing. For national travel information, please visit www.travel.state.gov.  

Is it safe to travel internationally?
All nonessential international travel is discouraged at this time. 

Should I wear a mask when I go out in public?
At this time we are not recommending that people wear masks when they are in public unless they are coughing. Masks can be useful in some settings, such as a clinic waiting room, to prevent someone who has a respiratory illness from spreading it to others. There is no hard evidence that wearing a mask protects the wearer outside of the healthcare setting.

What if I am pregnant?
CDC-issued guidance for Pregnant Women and Children, including Guidance on Pregnancy & Breastfeeding.

What if I am having anxiety and stress?
The CDC has resources for Manage Anxiety & Stress, including information about reducing stress in yourself and others.

The Massachusetts Department of Mental Health has resources and tips for Maintaining Emotional Health & Well-Being During the COVID-19 Outbreak.

This toll-free, multilingual, and confidential crisis support service is available to all residents in the United States and its territories.

What should health care professionals and health departments do?
This DPH website has a number of guidance documents tailored for a number of groups including clinicians, long term care facilities, schools, emergency responders and others. Visit COVID-19 Guidance and Directives. 

Additional recommendations and guidance on persons under investigation; infection control, including personal protective equipment guidance; home care and isolation; and case investigation, can be found on the CDC website: Information for Healthcare Professionals. For information on specimen collection and shipment, see Information for Laboratories. For information for public health professionals on COVID-19, see Information for Public Health Professionals.

