What is a novel coronavirus?
A novel coronavirus is a new coronavirus that has not been
previously identified. The virus causing coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) is not the same as the coronaviruses that commonly
circulate among humans and cause mild illness, like the common
cold. COVID-19 causes illnesses that can range from the mild to
more severe.

How severe is the virus?
Experts are still learning about the range of illness from this
virus. Reported cases have ranged from mild illness (similar to a
common cold) to severe pneumonia that requires
hospitalization. So far, deaths have been reported mainly in
older adults with prior health conditions.

 What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
Most patients with COVID-19 have reportedly had mild to
severe respiratory illness. 
At this time, the CDC believes that symptoms of COVID 19 may
appear in as few as two days or as long as 14 days after
exposure.

Who is at risk for COVID-19?
Currently the risk to the general public is low. At this time,
there are a small number of individual cases in the U.S. To minimize the risk of spread, health officials are working with health care providers to promptly
identify and evaluate any suspected cases.
Travelers to and from certain areas of the world may be at
increased risk. Chinese ancestry—or any other ancestry—does
not make a person more vulnerable to this illness. See the latest
travel guidance from the CDC.
People in communities where COVID-19 has been reported
are at elevated, though still relatively low risk of exposure.
Health care workers caring for patients with COVID19 are at elevated risk of exposure.
Close contacts of persons with COVID-19 also are at
elevated risk of exposure.
Travelers returning from affected international locations
where community spread is occurring are at elevated risk
of exposure.
CDC has developed guidance to help in the risk
assessment and management of people with potential
exposures to COVID-19.

What is close contact?
When a person has been within approximately 6 feet of a
person with COVID-19 for a prolonged
period of time. The definition of “close contact” used in Nevada is
the same as the CDC definition.

What should I do if I have symptoms?
Call your health care provider to identify the safest way to
receive care. Let them know if you have traveled to an affected
area within the last 14 days or have been in close contact with
a person known to have COVID-19.
In order to prevent health care facilities throughout Nevada
from being inundated with calls and patients arriving at their
locations without prior appointments, local health districts are
urging residents to only contact your medical professional if it
is a serious situation. 

Currently, medical providers in Nevada
have the most concern for residents who: 

Have had severe illness requiring hospitalization for a viral
respiratory disease that has no other known cause;

Have had direct contact with someone who has been
suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19;

Traveled to areas that have widespread/sustained
community transmission such as China, Italy, South Korea,
Iran and Japan (See CDC list here).





Should I be tested for COVID-19?
Call your health care professional if you feel sick with fever,
cough or difficulty breathing, and have been in close contact
with a person known to have COVID-19, or if you live in or have
recently traveled from an area with ongoing spread of COVID-19.
Your health care professional will work with the local health
district, DHHS and the CDC to determine if you need to be tested
for COVID-19, according to the most current CDC guidelines.

What is the treatment for COVID-19?
There are no medications specifically approved for COVID-19.
Most people with illnesses due to common coronavirus
infections recover on their own by drinking plenty of fluids,
resting, and taking pain and fever medications. For patients who
are more severely ill, medical care or hospitalization may be
required. The medical community is continuing to learn more
about COVID-19, and treatment may change over time.

What is a PUI (person under investigation)?
A PUI is an individual with COVID-19 symptoms, but not
necessarily the virus, who may have been exposed through close
contact with a confirmed case, recent travel to an affected
region, or who has severe respiratory illness requiring
hospitalization with no more likely diagnosis and no source of
exposure has been identified. PUI determinations are made in
accordance with CDC guidelines.

What is a PUM (person under monitoring), otherwise
known as an Individual under public health supervision?
A PUM is an individual who does not have COVID-19
symptoms but who may have been exposed through close
contact with a confirmed
case or from recent travel to an affected region. PUM
determinations are made in accordance with CDC guidelines.

What is the difference between a confirmed and a
presumptive positive result?
A presumptive positive result is when a patient has tested
positive by a public health laboratory, but results are pending
confirmation at the CDC. A confirmed result has been verified
by the CDC.

How is testing for COVID-19 conducted in Nevada?
Each of the two public health laboratories, the Nevada State
Public Health Laboratory in Reno and Southern Nevada Public
Health Laboratory in Las Vegas, available test supplies and each
can conduct between 40 to 150 tests per day, and as needed.

How is the testing information shared?
Test results from both Nevada public health laboratories
are immediately reported to the Nevada Division of Public
and Behavioral Health (DPBH) and the specific local health
authority. A positive test result is acted on immediately and
all potential contacts are identified and evaluated. Decisions
regarding quarantine of those that may have been exposed
are assessed individually and made on a case-by-case basis
depending upon each individual risk.

How much do these tests cost?
Public health laboratories are not charging patients for
these tests.

Who can get tested for the virus that causes COVID19 and why?
Not everyone needs to be tested. Testing decisions are made
on a case-by-case basis depending upon symptoms and
potential exposures. The decision to test is made by both the
health care provider and public health departments.

Should I be tested for COVID-19?
Call your health care professional if you feel sick with fever,
cough, or difficulty breathing, and have been in close contact
with a person known to have COVID-19, or if you live in or have
recently traveled from an area with ongoing spread of COVID-19
(e.g., China, Iran, Italy, Japan or South Korea). Your health care
professional will work with the local health district, DHHS and
the CDC to determine if you need to be tested for COVID-19.


What if I have symptoms of COVID-19 but have not been
around anyone who has been diagnosed with COVID-19?
If you have a fever, cough or shortness of breath but have
not been around anyone you know with COVID-19, call your
health care provider and ask if you need to be evaluated in
person.

How can I protect myself and my family?
A: There is currently no vaccine to prevent COVID-19. The best
way to prevent infection is to take precautions to avoid exposure
to this virus, which are similar to the precautions you take to
avoid the flu: 
Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
When you are sick, keep your distance from others.
If possible, stay home from work, school and errands when
you are sick. This will help prevent spreading your illness.
Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing
or sneezing. Serious respiratory illnesses are spread by
cough, sneezing or unclean hands.
Washing your hands often will help protect you from
germs. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol based hand rub.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth. Germs are often
spread when a person touches something that is
contaminated with germs and then touches his or her
eyes, nose or mouth.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces at home,
work or school. Especially when someone is ill. 
Get plenty
of sleep, be physically active, manage your stress, drink
plenty of fluids, and eat nutritious food.

Should I wear a face mask?
The CDC is currently not recommending face masks for the
general public. Face masks should be used by people who show
symptoms of COVID-19 to help prevent spread of the disease
and by health care workers and others taking care of someone
in a close setting.

What travel advisories are recommended?
CDC Travel Health Notices inform travelers and clinicians about
current health issues that impact travelers’ health, like disease
outbreaks, special events or gatherings, and natural disasters, in
specific international destinations. For updated CDC guidance on
current travel advisories to China, visit the CDC’s Travel Health
page on Novel Coronavirus in China.

How do I plan ahead for COVID-19?
Make an emergency plan of action with your household
members, relatives, and friends. Visit Preventing COVID-19
Spread in Communities Resources for Households (on the CDC
website) for more information. In addition:
If the disease starts spreading in your area, health officials
might recommend closing schools or canceling events and
encouraging people to work remotely to slow the spread of
the disease.
Make plans for alternative arrangements for your child
or yourself in the case of a school or university dismissal
or shutdown. Also make plans for your elders and your
pets, as needed.
Check in with your work about your sick leave and
telework options should you need to stay home to care
for a household member.

Make a list of your emergencycontacts—family, friends,
neighbors, carpool drivers, health care providers,
teachers, employers, local public health department, and
community resources.
Gather extra supplies, such as soap, tissues, and alcoholbased hand sanitizer. If you or one of your household
members have a chronic condition and regularly take
prescription drugs, talk to your health provider,
pharmacist and
insurance provider about keeping an emergency supply of
medications at home.

What happens if someone with a confirmed case of
COVID-19 may have been in close contact to a student or
employee?
Decisions about the implementation of community measures,
including closure of schools, will be made by the local health
district in consultation with local, state and federal officials, as
appropriate, and based on the scope of the outbreak and the
severity of illness. The local health districts will follow guidelines
from the CDC.

What is the difference between Isolation and
Quarantine?
Quarantine is for people who are not currently showing
symptoms but are at increased risk for having been exposed
to an infectious disease.
Quarantine is for people who could become sick and spread the
infection to others. Isolation is used for people who are currently
ill and able to spread the disease and who need to stay away
from others in order to avoid infecting them.

Why can’t I know the identity of a presumptive case, PUI,
PUM, or those who may be part of a contact investigation?
State and federal law protect the privacy and confidentiality of
individuals’ health information (commonly known as protected
health information or PHI). Recognizing the legitimate need for
public health authorities and othersresponsible for ensuring the
public’s health and safety to have accessto
PHI, state and federal law permit certain entities to disclose
protected health information only to entities who are legally
authorized to receive such reports for the purpose of preventing or
controlling disease.

What should I do if I don’t have insurance or a health
care provider?
A: Medically uninsured patients seeking care are encouraged
to visit a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) in their
community. FQHCs are defined by the Health Resources and
Services Administration as providing comprehensive,
culturally competent, quality primary health care services to
medically underserved communities and vulnerable
populations. To find an FQHC near you, please visit
https://www.nvpca.org.
Q: What can I do to help?
A: The news of this disease outbreak is concerning to all of us,
but especially impacts communities who have family or other
close connections in China or the greater Asian continent. We
should all do our part not to make assumptions by
discriminating, spreading misinformation, or harassing
individuals, families and communities that have made Nevada
their home. Just because a disease originates within a certain
area of the world does not mean that every person who has an
association with that country is ill or has the potential to
contract the virus.
It’s currently flu and respiratory disease season and health
officials recommend getting a flu vaccine if you haven’t done so
yet; taking everyday preventive actions to help stop the spread
of germs (staying away from others when sick; washing hands
frequently; avoiding touching your face, mouth or eyes); and
taking flu antivirals if prescribed.
If you are a health care provider caring for a novel coronavirus
patient, please take care of yourself and follow recommended
infection control procedures.
Q: Will warm weather stop the outbreak of
COVID-19?
A: It is not yet known if weather and temperature impact the
spread of COVID-19. Some other viruses, like the common cold
and flu, spread more during cold weather months, but that does
not mean it is impossible to become sick with these viruses
during other months. At this time, it is not known whether the
spread of COVID-19 will decrease when weather becomes
warmer.
Where can I get the most current information about
the COVID-19 outbreak?
You can also call the Southern Nevada Health District’s
Information Line at 702-759-INFO for updated information
about the COVID-19 outbreak.

