	Situation Summary: In December 2019, Chinese health authorities identified an outbreak of pneumonia associated with a novel, or new, coronavirus which has resulted in thousands of confirmed cases in China.  Additional cases have been identified in a growing number of other international locations, including the United States.  There are ongoing investigations to learn more.  

If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19,
follow the steps below to monitor your health and avoid spreading the disease to others:
Communicate with Public Health

After your diagnosis, you will receive a call from public health. It may take 1-3 business days
for public health officials to contact you, and they will ask about your activities before and
after you became ill.

Isolate Yourself
You should strictly isolate yourself at home for at least 7 days after you became ill, and you
should be feeling well (and without fever) for at least 3 days in a row before resuming normal
activities.
Other members of your household should also stay home, and no visitors should be allowed.
Stay in a specific room and away from other people in your home to the extent possible. Use a separate bathroom, if available. Household contacts can consider relocating to a separate, uninhabited housing location if available to decrease their risk of exposure.
Where possible, ask others such as friends or family, to get food or necessities for you.
If you must leave home, such as to seek medical care, wear a surgical mask if you have one.
Inform Your Close Contacts
Your close contacts will also need to stay home for 14 days after their last contact with you.
Close contacts include anyone that you were within 6 feet of for >10 minutes while feeling ill. 

Please share this resource with your contacts for additional information: 

Monitor Your Health
There is no specific treatment for COVID-19.
Get plenty of rest, stay hydrated and, if needed, take medication to reduce your fever.
Arrange for Care
If your symptoms get worse and you need to seek healthcare, call ahead and tell the provider
that you have been diagnosed with COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s office
take steps to keep other people from getting infected or exposed.
Practice Healthy Habits
Cover your cough or sneeze into your elbow or a tissue.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for ≥ 20 seconds, or use alcohol-based hand rub.
Clean and disinfect objects and surfaces regularly, including your phone.
Learn More

If you have been exposed to someone with COVID-19,
follow the steps below to monitor your health and avoid spreading the disease to others:
How do I know if I was exposed?
You generally need to be in close contact with a sick person to get infected. 

Close contact includes:
Living in the same household as a sick person with COVID-19;
Caring for a sick person with COVID-19;
Being within 6 feet of a sick person with COVID-19 for about 10 minutes or longer;
Being in direct contact with secretions from a sick person with COVID-19 (e.g., being
coughed on, kissing, sharing utensils, etc).

Communicate with Public Health
You may receive a call from public health if you have been in close contact with someone
with COVID-19. They will explain quarantine guidance and answer any questions you have.
If you have any additional questions, contact your local health department.

Quarantine Yourself
You should stay home for 14 days after your last contact with the person with COVID-19. If
your contact is a household member, you may need to stay home for longer.
Do not go to work or school, and avoid public places for 14 days.
If possible, get others such as friends or family, to drop off food or other necessities.

Monitor Your Health
Watch for fever, cough and shortness of breath during the 14 days after the last day you
were in close contact with the person with COVID-19.
If you develop these symptoms within 14 days of last contact with a person with
COVID-19, you may have COVID-19.
If your symptoms are mild, stay home and monitor your health. If you need medical
assessment, call the health clinic or hospital before you arrive and tell the provider that you
are a contact to a person who was diagnosed with COVID-19.

Practice Healthy Habits
Cover your cough or sneeze into your elbow or a tissue.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water are
not available, use an alcohol-based hand rub.
Clean and disinfect objects and surfaces regularly, including your phone.
Learn More


If you have been tested for COVID-19, follow the steps below to monitor
your health and avoid spreading the disease to others:

Communicate with Public Health
Public health will contact you with your results as soon as possible. It may be a week or
longer, depending on demand.
If you receive negative (or “not detected”) results, and COVID-19 is still circulating in your
community, continue to reduce your risk of getting sick by:
Practicing social distancing
Washing your hands
Avoiding non-essential outings

Isolate Yourself
While waiting for results, you should strictly isolate yourself at home.
Stay in a specific room and away from other people in your home to the extent possible.
Use a separate bathroom, if available. Household members can consider staying in a
separate location, if available, to decrease their risk of exposure.
Where possible, ask others such as friends or family, to get food or necessities for you.
If you must leave home, such as to seek medical care, wear a surgical mask if available.

Monitor Your Health
There is no specific treatment for COVID-19.
Get plenty of rest, stay hydrated and, if needed, take medication to reduce your fever.

Arrange for Care
If your symptoms get worse and you need to seek healthcare, call ahead and tell the
provider that you have been tested for COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s
office take steps to keep other people from getting infected or exposed.
Practice Healthy Habits
Cover your cough or sneeze into your elbow or a tissue.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for ≥ 20 seconds, or use alcohol-based hand
rub if soap and water are not available.
Clean and disinfect objects and surfaces regularly, including your phone.
Learn More


Faith-based organizations meet critical needs of their communities and provide comfort in times of stress. They
can also help to ensure their communities remain healthy.

Leaders may want to consider the following when planning activities to
help prevent the spread of COVID-19:
Encourage frequent hand washing or use of alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
Frequently clean surfaces in your facility, such as doorknobs, telephones,
and bathroom fixtures.
Practice social distancing and consider postponing events where
participants would be within 3 to 6 feet of one another.
Protect your members, especially those over 60 years of age and those
who may have low immunity or chronic medical conditions.

Consider making changes to your usual activities to make your
gatherings as safe as possible for your members:
Ask members and staff who are not feeling well to stay at home.
Ask parents to keep children who are not feeling well at home.
Encourage older members, or those who have health conditions, to avoid
church duties such as greeter or usher in order to avoid close contact with
multiple people.
Consider alternate forms of in-person greeting that do not involve shaking
hands or hugging.
If your organization provides communion, find ways to provide those
sacraments in ways that do not involve communal cups and plates.
Avoid passing collection plates from person to person. Place a collection
plate or basket in one location and allow members to go to it.
Activities that involve personal contact, such as hand holding for blessings,
should be avoided.
Encourage members to engage in frequent hand washing and to cover
coughs and sneezes with a tissue or with their elbow.
Ensure adequate amounts of soap and/or alcohol-based hand sanitizer to
serve your members while visiting your facility.
Consider alternatives to traditional services by utilizing live streams, prerecorded messages and other electronic means.
Social distancing is recommended. If participants cannot be spaced 3-6
feet from one another at the event, the event should be cancelled.
Outdoor events that provide adequate spacing between participants are
likely low-risk for spread of the virus.

Food has NOT been identified as a likely source of COVID-19, however it can be spread
between employees and customers.
Do not work if you have COVID-19 symptoms:
Fever
Cough
Shortness of breath

If you have been advised by the Health Department or your doctor to self-isolate or
quarantine, you must not return to work until that period is over.

Wash hands frequently with soap and warm water for 20 seconds. Dry hands with a
disposable paper towel.

Always wash your hands after touching your eyes, nose or mouth
Make sure handwashing stations are always stocked with soap and paper towels
Public restrooms and kitchen lavatories may need to be stocked more frequently
Do not touch ready-to-eat foods with bare hands.

Disinfect nonfood-contact surfaces and touchpoints such as menus, door knobs, tabletops,
and condiment containers often:



To help customers reduce illness wash, rinse, and sanitize tongs and other utensils in self-service areas often throughout the day.

Consider providing alcohol-based hand antiseptic rubs (with at least 60% ethyl alcohol) at
the entrance to the facility. 


The CDC is not aware of any reports that suggest COVID‐19 can be 
transmitted by food or food packaging. 

What is my risk of getting COVID‐19 from takeout/drive‐thru foods? 
There currently is no evidence that takeout or drive‐thru meals will increase illness.
This option is a good choice, especially for high risk and elderly groups, since it helps 
maintain social distancing.

Can I get COVID‐19 from touching food or packaging exposed to the virus?
Currently there is no evidence of food or food packaging being associated with transmission 
of COVID‐19.
To further minimize risk, handling food packaging should be followed by handwashing and/or 
using hand sanitizer.

What are the risks of food delivered to your home?
Similar to takeout, food delivery helps maintain social distancing and reduces the risk of 
coming into contact with COVID‐19.
Many delivery programs have also instituted no touch/no interaction options, which further 
reduces risk.

What happens if you ingest COVID‐19 through food?
If you consume food that is contaminated with COVID‐19, your stomach acid should 
inactivate the virus.
Even if your stomach acid did not inactivate the virus, there is no evidence the COVID‐
19 virus can cause illness if ingested. 

How to Handle Household COVID-19 Waste 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has determined that medical waste generated within households from COVID-19 patients can be managed in accordance with routine procedures for household generated medical waste and associated waste.  Generally, this waste, if generated by a household, should be placed in a segregated lined container and disposed of with normal municipal solid waste.  All other regulated medical waste generated from health care agencies are subject to normal State medical waste regulations.

The mission of the Division of Solid Waste Management (DSWM) is to protect, improve, and promote health and environmental quality through the responsive, effective oversight of waste management activities and the beneficial use of recovered materials.

Solid waste may be defined as any useless, unused, unwanted, or discarded materials. Hazardous waste, problem waste, toxic substances, and recyclables may be distinguished from other solid waste. DSWM has established focused programs to address each of these. 

If you need to reach a particular staff member, please see our contact list and be sure to consult our organization chart. 

If you are looking for the former Tenneesse Environmental Show of the South, please visit The Tennessee Environmental Network Show of the South for more information.

Is there assessment guidance to help me determine if my clients at a
day/night shelter facility may be at risk for having COVID-19?
Yes, the Tennessee Department of Health has specific guidance for homeless
shelter facilities. In addition, the CDC has provided guidance for homeless shelters
and service providers to help them plan for and respond to COVID-19.

 Is it possible to separate sick clients from well clients in the same facility?
 Yes, sick and well clients can be present in the same facility BUT should be
separated to the greatest extent possible. A private room and/or bathroom should
be provided for sick clients if possible. If possible designate separate areas for sick
and well clients in larger shared spaces. In shared sleeping areas (for those who
are not experiencing respiratory symptoms), ensure that beds or mats are at least
6 feet apart, request that all clients sleep head-to-toe, and create physical barriers
between clients with sheets or curtains. Limit interactions between well and sick
clients in facility congregate spaces to the greatest extent possible. Ensure shelter
staff or volunteers who interact with sick or potentially sick clients (such as intake
staff) have protective equipment (such as gloves and masks) for their safety and to
prevent transmission of sickness to well clients. Please refer to the Tennessee
Department of Health’s specific guidance for homeless shelter facilities for more
information, as well as the interim guidance for homeless service providers
developed by the Seattle-King County Public Health Department.

Does the Tennessee Department of Health have supplies (such as hand
sanitizer, personal protective equipment, COVID-19 test kits) available for
me to use at my facility?
 No, the Tennessee Department of Health does not currently have supplies such
as hand sanitizer, personal protective equipment, COVID-19 test kits to distribute
to shelters or other facilities.

 Can the Tennessee Department of Health provide staff to help me assess
my clients for COVID-19 either on-site at my shelter or at a local health
department building?
 No, the Tennessee Department of Health does not have staff capacity to help
assess shelter clients either on-site or at a local health department building at this
time. If you suspect a client has COVID-19 call your local health department
immediately.

My shelter relies on volunteers who help to staff the shelter and/or
provide food. Given “safer at home” directives can my staff and volunteers
still provide services?
Yes, staff and volunteer workers who provide services at shelters and other
facilities that provide services to the homeless are considered “essential staff”
and can continue to volunteer at those facilities. However, staff and volunteers
should adhere to any updated procedures in place at those facilities to keep
themselves and their clients safe. The Tennessee Department of Health has
developed an information sheet that provides guidance for homeless shelters
and facilities to reduce the risk of transmission.

Are there guidelines for safe food preparation at my facility?
Yes, the Tennessee Department of Health has developed an information sheet
for food handlers to reduce the risk of transmission. Food has NOT been
identified as a likely source of COVID-19. However, it can be spread between
employees and customers.

Should I be limiting the number of clients in a dining area to 10 or fewer
at a time?
Yes, if at all possible, try to limit the number of people in a dining space to 10
or fewer. Staggering meal times or providing to-go meals are options. If limiting
the number of clients is not feasible, arrange seating so that persons are a
minimum of 6’ apart.

We have needs for staff/housing/supplies/transportation or other
logistics that cannot be met at the local level. Who do we contact for
assistance?
Please contact your county’s Emergency Operations Center for further
assistance. 


							