	COVID-19 )is a respiratory illness that can spread from person-to-person.  The virus that causes COVID-19 is a new form of coronavirus that was first found in people in December, 2019.  It has the potential to cause severe illness in some people.	How is it spread?	People with COVID-19 can spread it to others when they cough or sneeze.  The virus is found in droplets from the throat and nose.  When someone coughs or sneezes, other people near them can breathe in those droplets.	The virus can also spread when someone touches an object with the virus on it.  If that person then uses their hands to touch their face, mouth, or eyes, the virus can make them sick.	What are the signs and symptoms?	How can it be prevented?	Wash your hands often with soap and water.  Use hand sanitizer if you do not have soap and water.	Cover your nose and mouth when you cough or sneeze, and then throw the tissue away.  If you do not have a tissue, cough or sneeze into your sleeve.	Do not have close contact with people who are sick and stay home if you are feeling sick.	Clean and disinfect surfaces thoroughly.	What should I do if I have symptoms?	Call your doctor if: You have been to an affected country in the past two weeks or have had close contact with someone who has a confirmed COVID-19 infection.  You have symptoms of fever, cough, or shortness of breath.

				COVID-19: Have You or Someone You Know Been Diagnosed with COVID-19?	COVID-19: Have You or Someone You Know Been Diagnosed with COVID-19?	Have you had contact with someone who was diagnosed?	If you had contact with someone who does not live with you (like at work, school, or other contact), you may be at risk of infection depending on what type of contact you had with them.	Your local health department may reach out to you to recommend self-quarantine and self-monitoring.	Stay home.  It is important that you avoid contact with others to avoid spreading the infection to others (this is called "self-quarantine").	Monitor your symptoms.  Check your temperature twice daily and write down any symptoms you have (this is called 'self-monitoring").  Your local health department will give you instructions if they want you to report your symptoms to them regularly through a phone call or email.  What should I do if I had close contact with someone diagnoses with COVID-19 includes a chart you can use to log your daily symptoms.	How long do I need to stay home?  Since it may take up to 14 days for you to have symptoms after infection, you should self-quarantine and self-monitor for 14 days from when you last had contact with the infected person.  See our Quarantine release timeline flyer for those who had close contact with someone diagnosed with COVID-19.	Diagnosed case in your home?	If you live with someone who was diagnosed with COVID-19, your local health department will contact you with instructions for what you should do.  Because you are at high risk for getting COVID-19, you will be instructed to monitor yourself for symptoms and stay home (this is called "self-quarantine").	If you are at higher risk for serious illness, you should find an alternative living arrangement separate from the sick family member, if possible.	Stay home.  It is important that you avoid contact with others to avoid spreading the infection to others.	Monitor your symptoms.  Check your temperature twice daily, and write down any symptoms you have (this is called "self-monitoring").  Your local health department will give you instructions if they want you to report your symptoms to them regularly through a phone call or email.  What should I do if someone in my home is sick from COVID-19 includes a chart you can use to log your daily symptoms.	How long do I need to stay home and self-monitor?  Since it may take up to 14 days for you to have symptoms after infection, you should self-quarantine and self-monitor for 14 days from:		When the last sick member of your household recovered (the day they no longer had fever and had improvements in other symptoms).	See our Quarantine release timeline flyer for those who live with someone diagnosed with COVID-19.	What if someone else in my household gets sick?  If someone who lives in your household gets sick and are unable to separate from others, all well members of your household need to extend their self-quarantine and self-monitoring for 14 days from the date the last person recovered from their illness.	What if I get sick?  Call your doctor if you need medical care, and isolate yourself from other well members of the house, if possible.  More can be found at: If you think you are sick.	Have you been diagnosed?	If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, and are able to manage your symptoms at home, your local health department will contact you with instructions for what you should do.  These instructions will include how to practice self-isolation and self-monitoring, and what your friends and family should do to protect themselves.  See our What do I do if I am Diagnosed with COVID-19 flyer.	Stay home.  It is important that you avoid contact with others (What should I do if I was tested for COVID-19 and awaiting results).?  We now know that COVID-19 can be spread to others from two days BEFORE symptoms start to a few days after you recover; this is known as the "infectious period."  Because of this, you should remain in isolation for:		Seven days from the date you first had symptoms.	See our Isolation release timeline flyer for those who are diagnosed with COVID-19.	Monitor your symptoms.  Seek medical care if your illness worsens or if you develop emergency warning signs.	Keep a list of people you had contact with while you were sick.  Your local health department may contact you for a list of all the people you had contact with in the two days before you first felt sick up until after your symptoms resolved.  This is called "contact tracing" and is one way public health authorities identify people who could have been infected.  People in your family, and others you had close contact with, will be asked to stay home and monitor their symptoms to make sure they don't get sick and infect others.  More can be found at: CDC COVID-19: If you are sick or caring for someone.	Take steps to prevent others in your household from getting sick.	Separate yourself from other people in your home (this is called "home-isolation").	Wear a face mask when you are around other people.	Cover your coughs and sneezes.	Clean your hands often.	Avoid sharing personal household items.	Clean high-touch surfaces everyday.  See our Cleaning and Disinfecting flyer.	Below is guidance for businesses and employers for responding to COVID-19 and Emergency Order #12.	Emergency Order #12 aligns with the U.S Department of Homeland Security list of essential critical infrastructure workers during the COVID-19 response.  Section 13 of Emergency Order 12, Safer at Home Order, states that "Essential Businesses and Operations" means health care and public health operations, human services operations, essential infrastructure operations, and essential governmental functions as well as "any business or worker identified in the U.S Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency, Memorandum on Identification of Essential Critical Infrastructure Workers during COVID-19 Response," in addition to a number of other businesses, with certain conditions.	What can I do now to prepare for COVID-19 impacts to my workplace?	All employers need to consider how best to decrease the spread of acute respiratory illness and lower the impact of COVID-19 in their workplace.	When making plans, employers should consider levels of occupational risk, local disease severity, and the potential impact of disease on vulnerable employees and customers.  The Occupational Health and Safety Administration has developed guidance to help assess occupational risk and lists a number of examples to help workplaces prepare for COVID-19.	Employers should also prepare for increased numbers of absences.  School closures, day care closures, illness in employees and their family members, and other factors may contribute to higher rates of employee absence.  Employers should develop and implement plans to respond to absenteeism at the workplace that relates to continuing your essential business functions.  To the extent possible, find ways to cross-train personnel to perform essential functions so that the workplace is able to operate, even if key staff members are absent.  See the Department of Labor's Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19 for additional information and resources.	Employers should ensure that their sick leave policies are flexible and consistent with public health guidance, and that employees are aware of these policies.	What are nonessential and essential businesses?		All nonessential businesses and operations must close and cease all activities at facilities located within Wisconsin.  All closures previously ordered remain in effect.  Nonessential businesses include, but are not limited to:										Nonessential businesses may maintain basic operations, such as managing inventory, preserving the physical plant and equipment, processing payroll and employee benefits, etc.	Businesses, including home-based businesses, may continue operations consisting exclusively of employees or contractors performing activities at their own home or residences-- working from home.		The Wisconsin Economic Development Corporation has defined essential businesses as those fitting the following definitions, and, as such, are allowed to remain open.  Prior restrictions apply; for example, restaurants may only provide takeout food, no eating on the premises.  All essential businesses shall meet social distancing requirements to the extent possible.																																What can I do to slow or prevent COVID-19 illnesses my workplace?		Place informational posters in prominent areas.  CDC has developed a number of communication materials available in various languages, for employers to use.  For example:	Post the Stop the Spread of Germs poster where it would be visible to the public or to employees, such as near the entrance, in public or employee bathrooms, in the employee break room.	Post the steps for proper handwashing in areas with sinks.	Post the Symptoms of Coronavirus Disease 2019, and the Stay Home When You Are Sick posters in areas where employees are likely to see them.	Post information about the steps your business is taking to keep customers safe from COVID-19 on your website and at your physical location.		Instruct employees to clean their hands often with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer or wash their hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.	Advise employees to avoid touching their eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.	Provide soap and water and alcohol-based hand rubs in the workplace to encourage hand hygiene.  Ensure that adequate supplies are maintained.	Provide disposable wipes so that commonly used surfaces (for example, doorknobs, keyboards, remote controls, desks) can be wiped down by employees before each use.	Whenever possible, maintain a distance of at least 6 feet from others.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces daily.  See the CDC COVID-19 Disinfection Guidance.	Involve your human resources department or employee health for further guidance or under the following circumstances:	Employees who are well but have a family member at home who is sick with COVID-19 should notify their supervisor that they will not be attending work and quarantine themselves and any other household contacts.  Family medical leave or other legal contracts may apply.	Individuals who are asymptomatic and have no knowledge of being exposed to someone with COVID-19 can attend work unless they have a possible travel exposure.	Public health officials will only contact employers about positive cases among their employees if there is a concern about compliance with isolation requirements or if there is a risk that other employees or others were exposed and needs the cooperation of the employer to locate those individuals.  Public health does not routinely contact employers when the risk to other employees or others is low.	If an employee shares that they have COVID-19 infection, employers should inform fellow employees of their possible exposure to COVID-19 in the workplace but maintain confidentiality as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and not share anything about the employee's illness with other staff members.	Develop policies and procedures for prompt identification and isolation of sick people, when appropriate.	Inform employees of the signs and symptoms of COVID-19 and develop policies and procedures for employees to report when they are sick or experiencing fever (>100.4°F) AND/OR respiratory symptoms (for example, cough, shortness of breath).	Immediately isolate individuals who have signs and/or symptoms of acute respiratory illness.  Move potentially infectious people to a location away from workers, customers, and other visitors.  Although most worksites do not have specific isolation rooms, designated areas with closable doors may serve as isolation rooms until potentially sick people can be removed from the worksite.  Restrict the number of personnel entering isolation areas.	Actively encourage employees with any acute respiratory illness to stay home.	Ensure that employees who have symptoms of respiratory illness stay home and do not come to work until they are free of fever (>100.4°F) AND/OR respiratory symptoms (for example, cough, shortness of breath) for at least three days (72 hours) without the use of fever-reducing medicine AND seven days have passed since symptoms first appeared.  Employees should notify their supervisor and stay home if they are sick.	Talk with companies that provide your business with contract or temporary employees about the importance of sick employees staying home and encourage them to develop non-punitive leave policies.	Do not require a health care provider's note for employees who are sick with acute respiratory illness to validate their illness or to return to work.	Encourage employees who have been exposed to a person with COVID-19 to stay home from work and self-monitor.	DHS recommends that employees who are told they have a medium or high-risk exposure should be excluded from work for 14 days during which they should monitor for symptoms and/or fever.	Health care workers who have been exposed to a person with COVID-19 do not need to be excluded from work, but should self-monitor for symptoms and complete daily symptom checks in coordination with their employer.			Reduce on-site work hours to the minimum needed to sustain operations.	Restrict visitors, including suppliers and customers.	Perform a workflow audit that removes instances of employees being within 6 feet of each other.	Make use of telework and/or remote work options.  On-site work hours should be reduced to the minimum required to sustain operations.	Stagger schedules to limit the number of people congregating in an area at the same time, for example:	Staggered shifts and work hours.	Staggered use of shared spaces, including bathrooms, break rooms and lunchrooms.	Staggered facility entry and exit procedures.	Tape off 6-foot by 6-foot boxes on the floor of areas where customers queue up, such as at a check-in desk or check out-register.	Increase the availability of and promote the use of curb-side pickup service.	Staff up curb-side pickup service positions.	Dedicate a larger portion of your parking lot to pick-up services.	Increase the availability and promote the use of delivery service.	Staff up delivery service positions.	When delivering goods, drop them off (for example, at the customer's door step or in their trunk) rather than handing them to the customer.	Ban in-person meetings (internal or external) and employee convenings (formal or informal) of any size.	Handle employee communication virtually, wherever possible.	Discourage hand shaking or other forms of physical contact.		Place hand sanitizer and disinfectant wipes throughout the retail space for customers to use, including near high-touch areas, such as checkout lanes and touch screens.	Make hand sanitizer and disposable disinfectant wipes available in employee areas.	Tape around surfaces that receive frequent human contact, and disinfect these surfaces multiple times daily.	Make sure that bathrooms are fully stocked with soap and hand towels, and that sinks are in working order.	Make single-use gloves available to employees.	When appropriate, prop open doors.	Make use of hands-free enabled technologies.	Do not share food.		Increase cleaning staff.	Stagger services, such as closing in the middle of the day and/or opening later, in order to provide time for cleaning and disinfection before, during, and after the work day.	Wipe down carts, baskets, or other shared equipment throughout the day.	Clean common areas between shift changes.		Use plastic sheeting, plexiglass, or another transparent barrier to separate workers from customers, such as:	At check-in desks.	At cash registers.	Between the front and rear seats of vehicles.	Discontinue use of close quarters common work areas (such as bull pens) and separate employees into offices or cubicles.		Reserve special hours of operation for customers who are at elevated risk for severe infection from COVID-19.	Utilize human traffic management by:	Limit nonessential movement within and among facilities (for example, restrict workers' movements to only the parts of the facility where they perform their duties, limit the number of employees who travel freely throughout or between facilities).	Clearly separate employees by different shifts.	Limit deliveries to only those that support production activities or emergency building maintenance.	How long should I wait before disinfecting an area where a person with COVID-19 has been present?	If an individual with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 has visited your workplace, more stringent environmental cleaning and disinfection protocols should be followed.	It is recommended to close off areas used by ill persons and, if possible, wait 24 hours before beginning cleaning and disinfection to minimize the potential for exposure to respiratory droplets.	Open outside doors and windows to increase air circulation in the area.	Cleaning staff should clean and disinfect all areas (for example, offices, bathrooms, and common areas) used by ill persons, focusing especially on frequently touched surfaces.	There is no recommended minimum amount of time that employers should wait after disinfection protocols have been implemented before employees can return to work in that area.		Discontinue any non-emergent work-related domestic travel, especially to areas with community transmission of COVID-19.	International travel should be banned for both business and personal reasons.	See DHS guidance on travel-related restrictions.	When can a recovering COVID-19 patient return to work?	Ensure that employees who have symptoms of respiratory illness stay home and do not come to work until:	They are free of fever (>100.4°F) AND/OR respiratory symptoms (for example, cough, shortness of breath) for at least three days (72 hours) without the use of fever-reducing medicine; AND 	Seven days have passed since symptoms first appeared.	One of my employees tested positive for COVID-19.  How do I make decisions about maintaining operations?	Decisions about how and whether to maintain operations at a facility where a suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19 has been present are highly dependent on the circumstances and need to be made on a case-by-case basis.	Regardless of whether a business decides to reduce or suspend operations or not, if a large enough percentage of employees were exposed, it may need to do so anyway.  Employers deciding whether to stop all or some of their operations should assess the probability that the sick individual infected other employees, the probability of the infection spreading from the business to the community, and the risks and benefits of maintaining or reducing/suspending operations.	The following considerations may be used by employers, local and state health authorities, and others to assess the situation and inform these decisions.  This guidance is directed at businesses that are permitted to continue operations per the Emergency Order #12: Safer at Home Order.  However, this guidance is not intended for health care workers or other job functions that do not inherently carry a risk of exposure to COVID-19.  See the Occupational Safety and Health Administration Guidance on Preparing Workplaces for COVID-19 for descriptions and examples of jobs by the level of exposure risk.	Location and Duration of the Exposure Employers should work closely with their local and/or state public health authorities to seek to understand the potential magnitude of the infected employee's exposure to other co-workers in order to inform decisions about mitigation measures and/or the need for a full or partial closure.  COVID-19 is thought to spread mainly person-to-person, through close contact (within 6 feet), but may also be spread through contact with contaminated surfaces or objects.	Key Questions:	How much of the facility and/or what areas of the facility did the employee spend time in while symptomatic?	How much time did the employee spend in different areas of the facility while symptomatic?	How much time did the employee spend in close proximity to other employees while symptomatic?	Potential Routes of Exposure Understanding the potential routes of exposure will help you to determine how and how many staff were potentially infected.	Key Questions-- Based on the activities performed by the infected individual during their infectious period, what are the potential routes of exposure?	Person to person through sustained close contact?	Environmental through touching a contaminated surface?	Both?	Degree to Which Personal Prevention and Hygiene Measures Were Implemented The best way to prevent infection with COVID-19 is to avoid being exposed to the virus.  Employers should actively promote prevention strategies.  Knowing the degree to which prevention and hygiene measures were followed will help an employer determine how and how many staff were potentially infected.	Key Questions:	Were employees trained on and implementing prevention measures (sick employees stay home; covering coughs, sneezes; discarding tissues; hand washing, etc.) 	Was there adequate access to hygiene materials (soap and water, hand sanitizer containing at least 60% ethanol or 70% isopropanol, waste receptacles for tissues)?	Number and Types of Employees Potentially Exposed Employers should seek to characterize the effect of the potential exposure on their staff and the business' ability to continue critical operations.	Key Questions:	How many staff were potentially exposed?	Do the exposed employees perform critical functions for the business?	Can other employees be shifted to cover their duties?	Is it possible to remain open without them?	Number and Timing of Additional Illnesses In order to make operational decisions, it is important to consider the employee's illness in the context of other infections and illnesses within the rest of the organization.	Key Questions:	Was this the first and only employee to become ill or have there been others?	Are employee illnesses rising or declining?	Business Functions The employer should assess the function or service the business provides within the larger context of the outbreak, the needs of the community, and the impact that reducing or suspending operations would have on their customers.  Business functions should be taken into consideration when weighing the risks and benefits of maintaining or reducing/suspending operations.	Key Questions:	If your business were to reduce or suspend operations, do you have a plan and agreements in place that would facilitate the work to be done by either a different unit within your organization or an outside organization?	What are the potential consequences of suspending operations?	Is it possible to continue providing essential services if a portion of the organization shuts down?	What are the negative consequences of maintaining or reducing/suspending operations (for example, for health and safety, the economy, society)?	Does the business serve individuals at increased risk for severe infection from COVID-19 (such as older adults and those with chronic medical conditions like diabetes, heart or lung disease)?	Potential for Infection to Spread Within the Business The employer should consider the potential impact to their business if COVID-19 were to spread among their staff.  The potential for infection to spread within the organization should be taken into consideration when weighing the risks and benefits of maintaining or reducing/suspending operations.	Key Questions:	Are there employees at elevated risk for severe infection from COVID-19 (such as older adults and those with chronic medical conditions like diabetes, heart or lung disease)?	How many employee illnesses could the organization absorb while still maintaining operations?	Potential for Infection to Spread From the Business to the Community Employers should consider the likelihood of the infection spreading from within the organization to the broader community through business interactions.  The potential for infection to spread from the business to the community or from the community to the business should be taken into consideration when weighing the risks and benefits of maintaining or reducing/suspending operations.	Key Questions:	Does our business rely on close contact with clients?	Does your business produce products that could result in community spread if those products were contaminated by an ill employee?	Is it possible to conduct business remotely to prevent spread?	If additional workers have been infected, what is the probability that they will spread the infection to others in the community, including vulnerable populations or the worker's families?	Additional Considerations When considering operational decisions, employers should:	Act as though symptomatic individuals are infected with COVID-19 until they know otherwise.	Act quickly to prevent spread (implement measures immediately).	Where can I turn for more information?	In spite of restrictions on large and small groups, the number of people infected with COVID-19 continues to grow resulting in more individuals needing medical care and accelerating the possibility of exceeding Wisconsin's health care resources.  Social distancing-- the practice of keeping at least 6 feet apart from others and avoiding direct physical contact-- is proving the only effective means of slowing the rate of infection.  Therefore, DHS, under the authority of Wis.  Stat.  §§252.02( 3) and (6) and the direction of Gov Evers, has updated prior orders regarding mass gatherings and gatherings of more than 10 people to prevent the spread of COVID-19.  The order is effective at 8:00 a.m on Wednesday, March 25, 2020, and will remain in effect until 8:00 a.m on Friday, April 24, 2020, or until a superseding order is issued.			See Safer at Home FAQs for more information.	 What is "Safer at Home?"	All individuals in the state of Wisconsin are ordered to stay at home or at their place of residence, with limited exceptions.  Individuals who are using shared or outdoor space other than their home or residence, must, at all times and to the extent possible, maintain social distancing of at least 6 feet from another person.  Individuals do not need to maintain social distancing between family members in a single living unit or with other household members.	All individuals may leave their home or residence for a number of essential activities and functions including health and safety, such as picking up medications, visits with health care providers; obtaining groceries and food, buying gas or pet food, and other activities necessary to maintain the home or residence; outdoor activities, such as walking, biking, hiking or running while maintaining social distancing (does not include contact sports such as basketball); taking care of others, including friends and pets; and the travel associated with such tasks.  See Emergency Order #12 for additional information.	See our Understanding "Safer at Home" flyer and Safer at Home FAQs for more information.		How long is this order in effect?	This order will remain in effect until 8:00 a.m on Friday, April 24, 2020, or until a superseding order is issued.	What are the Penalties for Violating this Rule?	Violation or obstruction of this Order is punishable by up to 30 days imprisonment, or up to a $250 fine, or both, Wis.  Stat.		To prevent getting and spreading COVID-19, make sure you practice good personal health habits.  The best way to prevent infection is to avoid being exposed to the virus.  See our Protect Your Family flyer and CDC's advice on how to protect yourself from COVID-19.		Stay at home as much as possible.  Cancel events and avoid groups, gatherings, play dates, and nonessential appointments.	Avoid gatherings of 10 or more people.	Stay at least 6 feet away from other people, when possible.	Stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care.		Wash your hands regularly for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.	Avoid touching your face, eyes, and mouth when in public.		If you become sick, stay home.  Visit our if you think you are sick webpage for more information.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze or use the inside of your elbow.	Clean frequently touched surfaces and objects daily (for example, tables, countertops, light switches, doorknobs, and cabinet handles).	Should we wear face masks when we are out in public?	At this time, CDC does not recommend that people who are not sick wear a face mask to protect themselves from COVID-19.	There are specific situations where use of a mask may be recommended, including:	For health care workers who are caring for someone who might be infectious.	If you have respiratory symptoms (cough, fever) and are going to a clinic for medical care, you may be asked to wear a surgical mask to prevent exposing other patients or health care providers to respiratory droplets.	Some people who have weakened immune systems may wear face masks in public for protection from respiratory infections.	People who are caring for someone who is sick with a respiratory illness may choose to wear a mask to protect themselves.	More can be found at: CDC COVID-19, Frequently Asked Questions and Answers webpage.		CDC and DHS have developed materials to help organizations and facilities prepare for COVID-19.	Disinfection and cleaning.  See our flyer on disinfection and cleaning for COVID-19, available in multiple languages, and the CDC COVID-19, Environmental Cleaning and Disinfection Recommendations webpage.	Home.  See our Protect Your Family flyer and get tips from CDC on how to prepare your home and family for COVID-19.	Schools and child care programs.  See CDC tips on what steps schools and childcare programs can take to prevent and respond to COVID-19.  Schools and child care programs in Wisconsin should check on the latest recommendations and updates for schools and child care.	Colleges and universities.  See CDC guidance for colleges and universities.	Work.  See CDC recommendations for workplace.  Businesses and employers in Wisconsin can access up-to-date information about COVID-19 and their businesses on the DHS website.	Community-and faith-based programs.  See CDC tips on preparing your organization for COVID-19.  Community-and faith-based programs in Wisconsin should check DHS COVID-19 for community and faith-based programs website for the latest rules and recommendations.	Community events and gatherings.  CDC recommends canceling most events and gatherings during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Wisconsin has specific rules about what types of gatherings and events are permitted.	Health care settings.  Get CDC resources for clinics and health care facilities.  Health care providers and facilities in Wisconsin should access our webpage and sign up for HAN alerts to receive detailed and updated guidance during COVID-19.	Homeless shelters.  See CDC recommendations for homeless shelters during COVID-19 and our Living in Group Settings flyer.  Specific guidance for homeless shelters in Wisconsin is available under our community and faith-based webpage.	First responders.  Access CDC resources for first responders.	Retirement communities.  See CDC resources for retirement communities.	Correctional and detention faculties.  See CD resources for correctional and detention facilities.  Details for Wisconsin facilities are available among community and faith-based organizations.	More can be found at: CDC, How to Prepare for COVID-19.		Since COVID-19 is spreading in many communities of Wisconsin, everyone should stay home as much as possible and monitor themselves for symptoms of COVID-19.  If you notice new or worsening cough, shortness of breath, fever, or other signs of COVID-19, avoid contact with others and call your doctor if you need medical attention.  Check if you think you are sick for detailed instructions.	If you have had close contact with someone who has COVID-19 or you have traveled to certain areas with widespread community spread (transmission) of COVID-19, you may be asked to self-quarantine and self-monitor for symptoms to protect yourself, your family, and your community.	Self-quarantine is when people are asked to stay home and avoid contact with others because they may have been exposed to an infection but are not yet showing symptoms.	Self-monitoring is when people are asked to check for symptoms like fever, cough, and others because they may have been exposed to an infection but are not yet showing symptoms.	For information on whether or not you should self-quarantine, or self-monitor, please see the DHS COVID-19 monitoring webpage.	To prevent getting and spreading COVID-19, make sure you practice good personal health habits.  The best way to prevent infection is to avoid being exposed to the virus.  See CDC's advice on how to protect yourself from COVID-19.		Stay at home as much as possible.  Cancel events and avoid groups, gatherings, play dates, and nonessential appointments.	Avoid gatherings of 10 or more people.	Stay at least 6 feet away from other people, when possible.	Stay home when you are sick, except to get medical care.		Wash your hands regularly for at least 20 seconds.  If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.	Avoid touching your face, eyes, and mouth when in public.		If you become sick, stay home.  Visit our if you think you are sick webpage for more information.	Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or sneeze or use the inside of your elbow.	Clean frequently touched surfaces and objects daily (for example, tables, countertops, light switches, doorknobs, and cabinet handles).  See CDC's recommendations for household cleaning and disinfection webpage.	COVID-19: Tips for Staying Safe poster shown on this page is available in multiple languages.	More can be found at: CDC COVID-19, Frequently Asked Questions and Answers webpage.	How long does COVID-19 survive on surfaces?	It is not certain how long COVID-19 survives on surfaces, but emerging evidence suggest that the virus may survive on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days depending on various factors, such as the type of surface, humidity of the environment, exposure to heat, cold, sunlight, and ventilation.	If you think a surface may be infected, clean it with simple disinfectant to kill the virus and protect yourself and others.  Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or use hand sanitizer.						Plastics 2-3 days Packaging like milk containers and detergent bottles, subway and bus seats, backpacks, elevator buttons 						Paper Varies Some strains of coronavirus live for only a few minutes on paper, others live for up to 5 days.	For more information on how long COVID-19 lasts on surfaces and aerosol, see this article from the New England Journal of Medicine, March 17, 2020, and this article from the Journal of Hospital Infection February 6, 2020.	Do I need to sanitize my groceries?	According to the CDC, COVID-19 is thought to spread mainly from person-to-person.  Transmission via food and food packaging is low.  It may be possible that a person can get COVID-19 by touching a surface or object that has the virus on it and then touching their own mouth, nose, or possibly their eyes, but this is not thought to be the main way the virus spreads.  The greatest grocery-related risk is contact with others with high-touch areas like shopping carts and basket handles.	In general, because of poor survivability of these coronaviruses on surfaces, there is likely very low risk of spread from food products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks at ambient, refrigerated, or frozen temperatures.	Therefore, remember to practice appropriate social distancing while in the grocery store, avoid touching your face while shopping, and wash your hands thoroughly when you return home from the store.	COVID-19: Shopping Tips poster shown on this page is available in multiple languages.	Do I need to disinfect my fresh produce?	COVID-19 is unlikely to be passed on through fresh produce.  Even if the virus did survive on your fresh produce, it is likely to end up in the stomach where the low pH environment will inactivate and kill the virus.	Do not wash fresh produce in soap or detergent.  Soap is not designed for use on food and any residue on fresh produce can cause nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea if ingested.  The FDA recommends washing fresh fruits and vegetables in cold water.  Wash your hands with soap or use a sanitizer after handling your groceries and fresh produce.	Is take-out and food delivery safe?	COVID-19 is unlikely to be passed on through prepared meals ordered for take-out or delivery.  Since COVID-19 is spread mainly through person-to-person contact, the best precaution to take is to avoid direct contact with service workers.  If you are still concerned, here are some other practical steps you can take to stay safe when ordering take-out or food delivery:	Practice appropriate social distancing with restaurant personnel or other customers when getting take-out at the restaurant.	Use touch-free payment systems, including touch-free tipping.	Place delivery bags and containers in the sink rather than on the table or countertop.	Transfer food from takeout containers to a plate.	Discard all delivery bags, boxes, and takeout containers in the trash or recycling.	Wash your hands before eating.	Leftovers should be put in your own food storage containers rather than in takeout containers.	Clean and sanitize the sink after your meal.	How often should I wash my clothes?	Unless someone in your household has tested positive for COVID-19 or is displaying symptoms, you can wash your clothes as you normally do.	If someone in your household has confirmed or suspected COVID-19, the CDC says extra precautions must be taken when washing clothes, bed linens, or towels they came in contact with.	Wear disposable gloves when handling dirty laundry from an ill person and then discard after each use.  If using reusable gloves, those gloves should be dedicated for cleaning and disinfection of surfaces for COVID-19 and should not be used for other household purposes.  Clean hands immediately after gloves are removed.	If no gloves are used when handling dirty laundry, be sure to wash hands afterwards.	If possible, do not shake dirty laundry.  This will minimize the possibility of dispersing the virus through the air.	Launder items as appropriate, in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.  If possible, launder items using the warmest appropriate water setting for the items and dry items completely.  Dirty laundry from an ill person can be washed with other people's items.	Clean and disinfect clothes hampers according to guidance above for surfaces.  If possible, consider placing a bag liner that is either disposable (can be thrown away) or can be laundered.	Should we wear face masks when we are out in public?	At this time, CDC does not recommend that people who are not sick wear a face mask to protect themselves from COVID-19.	There are specific situations where use of a mask may be recommended, including:	For health care workers who are caring for someone who might be infectious.	If you have respiratory symptoms (cough, fever) and are going to a clinic for medical care, you may be asked to wear a surgical mask to prevent exposing other patients or health care providers to respiratory droplets.	Some people who have weakened immune systems may wear face masks in public for protection from respiratory infections.	People who are caring for someone who is sick with a respiratory illness may choose to wear a mask to protect themselves.	The COVID-19 pandemic has temporarily changed the way we work and live, go to school, and spend time together.  Limiting close contact with each other protects everyone's health, including those who are most vulnerable.  It also helps ensure vital health care resources remain available for those who need them.  But knowing that change is important doesn't make it easy.  As we all adapt to recent events, it's natural to feel stress, worry, and even anger.	That's why learning how to deal with difficulties in healthy ways and bounce back from hardship is key.  Scroll down to find practical tools and sources of support that can help you strengthen your resilience during times of stress, so you can take care of yourself and those around you during COVID-19 and beyond.		Strong emotions, and even physical reactions, are a natural response to traumatic events like a natural disaster or pandemic.  There's no right or wrong way to feel or act, and your reactions may change over time.  That's why it's important to understand your responses during stressful events-- so that you can better manage what you're feeling and recognize when you may need the support of a mental health or medical professional.						Look for these common reactions to traumatic events, now and as the COVID-19 pandemic evolves.	Mood swings and intense feelings, including fear and worry about your own health and the health of your loved ones, sadness, anger, guilt, and disorientation 										Research shows that people are resilient.  With time and support, we're able to recover from adversity.  It's OK to ask for help.  Remember the challenges you've overcome in the past; it's good to remind yourself of your own ability to bounce back.  Just remember that recovery is a process.  Give yourself time to adjust, now and after the COVID-19 pandemic ends.		Everyone reacts differently to stressful situations.  But taking care of yourself, your friends, and your family can help you cope with the changes you're experiencing.  People who have the skills to adapt and bounce back from hardships strengthen the people around them, and help make their community more resilient, too.		You're not being selfish, you're showing self-interest.  Taking the time to protect your own physical and mental health ensures you have the resources to take care of others.	Get the 3 "goods" That's good-for-you foods, a good night's sleep, and a good amount of exercise.	Relax your body Do what that works for you, like taking deep breaths, stretching and exercising, meditation or prayer.	Do something you enjoy Eat a good meal, read, create a playlist of your favorite music, play video games, or talk to family and friends.	Set boundaries Don't let the pandemic take over what you read, watch, or talk about.  And don't be afraid to ask friends and family to talk about something else.	Avoid negative outlets Find healthy ways to process your emotions.  Avoid self-medicating with alcohol, drugs, or risky behaviors.					Trusted, supportive relationships keep us grounded during uncertainty.  Whether you send a postcard or a text, you don't have to be physically close to stay connected.	Tap into technology Reach out to family and friends, colleagues, and support groups in whatever way you can: calls, email, texting, video chats, etc.	Use social media wisely Connect with the world outside via social media-- but don't overload on COVID-19 posts, and make sure the sources you follow are credible.	Do remote doctor visits Many health care providers offer remote care.  Ask your primary physician if you can schedule appointments over Skype, FaceTime, or email.	Have lunch long-distance Keep the standing social appointments in your life.  If you have lunch with a family member or friend every week, use technology to keep it up.	Join an online community Now is the time to make new friends and connect with people who share your hobbies and interests.						Stress and anxiety can make us spiral.  Take the time to discover which coping skills work for you, and practice them every day.	Reduce your risk Wash your hands for at least 20 seconds.  Cover your nose and mouth when you cough or sneeze.  Stay at least 6 feet apart while running essential errands at the store, pharmacy or gas station.  Knowing you're doing everything you can to stay healthy can help you worry less.	Establish a routine Staying balanced is easier when you build periods of activity and rest into your daily schedule.	Talk it out Try talking about your experiences and feelings with loved ones, a trusted advisor, or a support group or mental health professional.  It can help.	Avoid big decisions when possible Important decisions are usually stressful in their own right, and can be even harder when you're dealing with a trauma.	Monitor your reactions Check in with your body and emotions.  Know the signs of toxic stress and reach out for help if you feel like you can't cope.			Maintaining our physical, mental, and emotional well-being in times like these can be tough, and it may be even more difficult for some of us.  First responders and healthcare professionals, people living with mental or behavioral health concerns and other vulnerable populations all face unique challenges.		If you have a preexisting mental or behavioral health conditions, like anxiety or harmful substance abuse, make sure to continue your treatment plan, be aware of new or worsening symptoms, and try these coping strategies:		Work with your provider to outline the harmful coping practices you may turn to in times of stress, and identify healthy alternatives coping practices.		Choose healthy techniques for managing stress, like meditation or exercise, and practice them every day.		Your care routine may be disrupted by COVID-19.  Make arrangements for alternative care, like receiving health services by telephone or video, medication refills, or other mental wellness activities (like meditation, exercise, etc.) 		Look into online peer supports or hotlines to connect with others who understand your experiences and can assist in problem-solving.		Kids will follow your lead.  When parents and caregivers deal with COVID-19 calmly and confidently, they provide the best support for their children.  Other things you can do include:		Talk with your child or teen about the COVID-19 outbreak, and share the facts in a way they'll understand.		Make sure they know they are safe and that it's okay to feel upset or afraid.  Sharing your own feelings can help.		Limit their exposure to COVID-19 news coverage on TV and online.  Explain what they do hear to make sure they're not frightened about something they don't understand.		Create a schedule for learning, relaxing, physical activity, and spending time with each other that they can rely on.		It's important for kids, too.  A simple phone call can help keep your children connected to family members and their friends.			Caregiving is a rewarding but demanding role even at the best of times.  During periods of uncertainty like the COVID-19 pandemic, providing care for an older adult can be particularly stressful-- for you and your loved one.  Try these coping strategies:		Older adults are especially vulnerable to COVID-19, and may be more isolated than others.  Assist them with technology that can help them keep their social connections.		It's important for older adults to stay as active as possible for their physical well-being and mental health.		During COVID-19, it may be more difficult for older adults to manage everyday tasks.  Volunteer to take care of grocery shopping, pets, or taking out the garbage.		It may be hard for older adults to select reliable sources for news and information on COVID-19.  Creating a list of reputable media may help.		Find ways for older adults to help others, like checking in with others in isolation or entertaining grandchildren over video chat.  Having a role to play can reduce anxiety.		Providing mental health care during a crisis is challenging.  Make sure that you have the resilience and resources to stay healthy, and keep providing care for others during the pandemic by practicing these coping techniques:		Get adequate rest and exercise, eat healthy food, maintain your social connections, and take time away from providing care to others.		You should expect heightened anxiety in the individuals in your care.  Prepare your own toolkit of skills and scripts that might be helpful in advance.		Work with your colleagues to develop a crisis management plan that includes providing services via video or telephone, or alternate therapeutic arrangements in case of disrupted services.		Connect with others who are in a similar situation.  Being able to discuss the toll of vicarious trauma and anxiety is an important part of self-care.		Addressing your own stress and anxiety is critical.  You can't help others if you don't care for yourself.		The stress of responding to COVID-19 in your community can take a physical and emotional toll on police offices, dispatchers, emergency medical professionals, and others on the front lines.  There are things you can do to reduce secondary trauma and manage stress:	Know the signs Learn the symptoms of toxic stress, burnout, and secondary trauma.  They include fatigue, illness, fear, withdrawal, guilt, and other intense physical and emotional reactions.	Step away from the news It's important to stay informed, especially as a first responder.  But make sure to spend time in spaces where COVID-19 isn't the only focus.	Do things you enjoy Take the time for self-care activities, like staying connected with friends, exercising, reading, or playing a game with your family.	Talk it out Try talking about your experiences and feelings with a trusted college or advisor, a loved one who will understand, or a mental health professional.  It can help.	Ask for and accept help It can be difficult for those who help others to seek support.  But it's important to reach out if you feel overwhelmed or concerned that COVID-19 is affecting your ability to care for your family or the people you serve.		These resources are from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.	Tips for Health Care Practitioners and Responders: Helping Survivors Cope with Grief After a Disaster or Traumatic Event (PDF) 							Free support is available to help you through difficult times.	National Disaster Distress Helpline.  Speak to a trained crisis counselor.				National Domestic Violence Hotline.  Support for people experiencing domestic violence.			National Sexual Assault Hotline.  Connect to a sexual assault service provider in your area.		National Suicide Prevention Lifeline.  Support for people in emotional distress.			HOPELINE Text Service.  Support for people in emotional distress.		County Behavioral Health Crisis Hotlines.  Support for people in emotional distress.		Veterans Crisis Line.  Support for veterans struggling to cope with life's challenges.		Caregiver Help Desk.  Connect to information needed to navigate caregiving challenges.		LGBTQ Youth (Trevor Project).  Speak to a counselor trained to offer support in a judgment-free zone.			Wisconsin Addiction Recovery Helpline.  Connect to services in your area.				COVID-19: Are You at Higher Risk of Serious Illness?	COVID-19: Are You at Higher Risk of Serious Illness?	Some groups of people are at higher risk of getting very sick from COVID-19.  Adults over the age of 65 and people of any age who have serious underlying medical conditions, such as asthma, heart disease, diabetes, lung disease, and HIV, may be at higher risk for more serious complications from COVID-19.		If you are an older adult or have a serious underlying health condition:	Stay home if possible.	Wash your hands often.	Avoid close contact (6 feet, which is about two arm lengths) with people who are sick.	Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces.	Avoid all cruise travel and non-essential air travel.	Call your doctor if you have concerns about COVID-19 and your underlying condition, or if you are sick.	More can be found at: CDC COVID-19, Older Adults webpage.	More can be found at: CDC COVID-19, People with Asthma and COVID-19 webpage.		Checklist for Families:	Stay home if possible.  Follow the steps to protect yourself and your family.	Have medications, durable medical equipment (DME), special nutritionals, and other supplies available.  Check that equipment is charged and working properly.  Plan ahead for additional time for refill requests.	Keep family emergency preparedness kits stocked with food, household supplies and other items.  If you have a go-bag, such as an emergency kit for a tracheostomy or gastronomy tube (G-tube), make sure it is complete and stocked with back up supplies.	Clean and disinfect DME, assistive technology and adaptive equipment.  Here are some tips.	Plan for absences and changes in caregivers schedules.  Arrange for emergency caregivers in case family members or guardians become ill.  Try to assure that children are cared for by people they know so there are minimal separations from familiar caregivers.	Consider alternative strategies for limiting visits to your home by professionals and family and friends such as video chats or phone calls.	Call your child's health care provider in advance if you believe that your child needs to be evaluated.  Many health care providers are using telehealth visits.	Stay calm and have a plan.  The CDC has additional resources for emergency planning and preparedness for children with special health care needs.		The American Academy of Pediatrics created a resource for families about COVID-19 and Children with Special Health Care Needs from the American Academy of Pediatrics.	The Administration for Community Living has information for people with special needs and disabilities in English and Spanish.	Family Voices has information for and by families of children with special health care needs in multiple languages.	The CDC provided tips to keep children healthy while school is out.	Learn who is at greatest risk for severe complications; tips for older adults and people of any age who have serious medical conditions.	Families with children and youth with special health care needs may need additional support.  For more information and resources, visit the CYSHCN's webpage.	People with confirmed infections have a range of symptoms, from little to no symptoms to people being severely sick and dying.  Symptoms may include:											Not everyone with COVID-19 has all of these symptoms.  For many, symptoms are mild, with no fever.  It is important to know that you can still spread (transmit) the virus to others even if you have mild or no symptoms.	COVID-19 is spread through respiratory droplets that are released when a sick (infected) person coughs, sneezes, or breathes.  These droplets can remain in the air and on surfaces for an extended period of time.  When people breathe in (inhale) the droplets, or touch surfaces that have been contaminated and then touch their mouth, face, or eyes, the virus can make them sick.	The CDC believes that symptoms of COVID-19 appear in as few as two days or as long as 14 days after contact with someone who has COVID-19.	Know emergency warning signs for COVID-19 and get medical attention immediately.	Emergency warning signs include*:					*This list is not all inclusive.  Please consult your doctor or medical provider for any other symptoms that are severe or concerning.		If your illness is worsening (for example, if you have difficulty breathing), seek medical attention, but call first if you can.	Call your doctor before going in: Before going to the doctor's office or emergency room, call ahead if you can and tell them your symptoms.  They will tell you what to do.	If possible, take your temperature twice a day with a thermometer.  A fever is typically a temperature of 100.4°F or greater.  If you do not have a thermometer, symptoms of fever may including feeling unusually hot for no reason, having chills or having the sweats.	Watch for fever, cough, or trouble breathing.	Wear a facemask: If possible, put on a facemask before you enter the building.  If you can't put on a facemask, try to keep a safe distance from other people-- at least 6 feet away.  This will help protect the people in the office or waiting room.	Follow care instructions from your health care provider and local health department: Your local health authorities will give instructions on checking your symptoms and reporting information.	Over-the-Counter Medication: There is no antiviral drug treatment for COVID-19, but individuals may want to consider over-the-counter (OTC) medications to relieve symptoms such as fever or muscle aches.  Though there have been reports that ibuprofen (also called Advil or Motrin) may cause serious side effects among COVID-19 patients, we don't have enough evidence to say whether this is true.	At this point, the World Health Organization is not recommending that people avoid ibuprofen when treating the symptoms of COVID-19.  However, as we learn more about this issue, you may want to consider first using other OTC medications such as acetaminophen (also called Tylenol), as long as you do not have conditions such as liver disease that would make it unsafe for you.	Contact your doctor with questions regarding treatment of any symptoms.			What should I do if I had close contact with someone who has COVID-19?	What should I do if someone in my home is sick from COVID-19?	What should I do if I was tested for COVID-19 and awaiting results?  P-02599, available in multiple languages.	What should I do if I am Diagnosed with COVID-19?		Call your doctor if you have symptoms of COVID-19 and need medical care or think you are high risk for having a severe illness.  Your doctor will determine whether or not you should be tested based on your symptoms, risk factors like travel or contact with others who are sick, and if you have underlying medical conditions.	Due to current shortages in testing supplies, not everyone with symptoms will be tested.  If your symptoms are mild and can be managed at home, your doctor might recommend that you stay home under self-isolation to prevent the spread to others.	More can be found at: CDC COVID-19: If you think you are sick webpage.	DHS recommends Wisconsin residents cancel or postpone all nonessential travel, including travel within the state.  At this time, all international and domestic travel is considered risky, and all individuals who spend time outside of their home or local community have some risk of exposure to COVID-19.  If international or domestic travel cannot be avoided, be prepared to remain away for an extended period of time if travel restrictions change or if you become sick.  You should also be prepared to self-quarantine at home for 14 days upon your return.	Travel between private homes within the state, including seasonal homes or rental cabins, is strongly discouraged.  This is for your safety and wellbeing as well as the safety of our rural counties and tribal communities.  Non-essential travel outside your current community may spread COVID-19 to areas with very limited health care infrastructure.	Several counties in Wisconsin have issued travel advisories for seasonal and second homeowners.  If you choose to travel to a second home in Wisconsin, you should be prepared to immediately self-quarantine for 14 days.  You should bring your own groceries and essentials, as self-quarantine does not permit shopping at local stores for supplies.	"Safer At Home" and travel.  On March 24, Governor Evers implemented a "Safer at Home" order for all Wisconsin residents, which will be in effect until at least April 24, 2020.  This requires that Wisconsin residents stay at home or their place of residence, unless performing essential activities, such as seeking health care, food, necessary supplies and services, outdoor exercise, certain types of work, and other qualified activities.  All travel within Wisconsin is prohibited other than certain essential travel, including:	Travel required by law enforcement or court order.	Travel to return home from outside your home jurisdiction.	Travel to care for elderly, minors, dependents, persons with disabilities, or other vulnerable populations.	Travel to or from educational institutions to receive materials for distance learning, meals, or other related services.	Travel required for non-residents to return to their place of residence outside of Wisconsin.	Any travel related to perform other approved essential activities, special situations, essential government functions, essential business operations, and minimum basic operations, as described in Gov Evers' "Safer At Home" order.	Older adults and people with chronic medical conditions.  If you are at risk for serious illness from COVID-19, you should avoid all travel within and outside of your community in order to minimize contact with others.	International or domestic travel.  All travel that does not qualify as an essential activity should be canceled or postponed in compliance with the "Safer at Home" order.	Travel to countries with a Level 3 Travel Notice and travel on cruise ships are not considered safe at this time due to widespread transmission of COVID-19 in these areas.  People who travel to these areas despite this recommendation should be prepared to encounter significant delays in returning home.	If you are returning from travel.  If you traveled anywhere outside of your local community in the past 14 days, you are being asked to stay home and monitor yourself for symptoms for 14 days after you returned.  If you were able to practice social distancing during the entire time you were away (for example, you stayed in your car by yourself and kept at least 6 feet distance between yourself and others), you should still monitor your symptoms and practice social distancing.	Stay home.  It is important that you avoid contact with others to avoid spreading the infection to others (this is called "self-quarantine").	Monitor your symptoms.  Check your temperature twice daily, and write down any symptoms you have (this is called 'self-monitoring").  If you develop symptoms of COVID-19 like fever, cough, shortness of breath, or others and need medical care, call your doctor.  See the Medium risk flier for a chart you can use to log your daily symptoms.	See COVID-19: Monitoring for Illness for more details about self-monitoring and self-quarantine.	Note: Self-quarantine rules may not apply for health care workers and others who perform essential services.  Contact your local health department if you have questions about travel-related quarantine guidelines.	For everyone.  Because COVID-19 transmission is now widespread throughout Wisconsin, even people who have not traveled outside of their community should minimize their contact with others by staying home when possible, practicing social distancing, and being alert for symptoms of COVID-19.		What does Level 3 country mean, and what countries does CDC currently consider to be Level 3 because of higher risk for getting sick with COVID-19?	Level 3 means that there is widespread transmission of COVID-19 in these countries, and all nonessential travel should be avoided.  Not every country with cases of COVID-19 is considered Level 3 at this time, and all travel outside of your community, including domestic travel and travel within Wisconsin, may put you at risk for COVID-19.	More can be found at: CDC's Coronavirus Disease 2019 Information for Travel webpage.	What states currently have community transmission?	Transmission of COVID-19 is now widespread throughout the U.S, including in Wisconsin.  For the most up-to-date case counts for U.S states, visit the CDC Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in the U.S webpage.	Should I stay home if I was in a Level 3 country or a U.S state with community transmission during the last 14 days?	Yes.  Anyone who spent time outside of their local community in the past 14 days, including in Wisconsin, is being asked to complete a 14-day voluntary self-quarantine, unless they are health care workers or otherwise performing essential services.  This means that for 14 days, you stay in your home and away from other people to prevent you from accidentally making other people sick.  If you have been to a Level 3 country or a cruise, your local health department will be notified and may follow up with you directly.  For other locations, you are expected to impose a voluntary self-quarantine.	What if I ONLY spent time in an airport in a Level 3 country or state with community transmission?	All international travel, as well as travel within the U.S and travel within Wisconsin, is considered high risk if you are not able to maintain social distancing (for example, stay at least 6 feet away from others) throughout the entire trip.  Even spending time in an airport would mean you should follow the same requirements for self-quarantine and self-monitoring as other travel.	What if I spent time in a country with a CDC Level 2 Travel Health Alert?	Currently, CDC has issued a Level 2 Travel Health Alert for any international travel.  Given widespread global transmission of COVID-19, all international travel, as well as travel within the U.S and travel within Wisconsin, is considered high risk if you are not able to maintain social distancing (for example, stay at least 6 feet away from others) throughout the entire trip and would mean you should follow the same requirements for self-quarantine and self-monitoring as other travel.	Why am I being asked to quarantine myself if I am not sick?	A quarantine is a preventive step to help stop the spread of diseases.  It is the isolation of people who are not sick, but who were exposed to a disease and have the potential to become sick.  People are quarantined during the time they might become sick.  For COVID-19, most people will become sick within 14 days of their exposure if they were infected.  Putting yourself in quarantine while you are not sick limits the number of people you have contact with in the event you become sick.  This means you limit the number of people who could become sick from having contact with you because sometimes people can spread a disease before they know they are sick.	How do I reach my local health department if I have additional questions or need their assistance?	Your local or tribal health department is determined by where you live, please see the DHS Local Public Health webpage and click on the county where you live to see their contact information.	More can be found at: CDC COVID-19, Traveler Information Card.	