The Wyoming Department of Health is closely monitoring the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic.

The symptoms of this disease are familiar: fever, cough and shortness of breath.

While most people will likely not experience serious illness related to COVID-19, our top concerns involve older residents and people with certain health conditions that put them at higher risk of developing a serious or life-threatening illness.

Wyoming residents should follow our recommendations to help avoid becoming ill and to help avoid spreading COVID-19 to those who are most vulnerable.

We should all work together to help keep our friends and neighbors safe!

Stay home when sick and avoid contact with other people unless you need medical attention.
Follow advice from CDC on what to do if you think you may be sick.
Follow current public health orders.
Follow common-sense steps such as washing your hands often and well; covering your coughs and sneezes; and cleaning and disinfecting.
Nursing homes, assisted living facilities and other healthcare facilities should closely follow guidelines for infection control and prevention.
Older people and those with health conditions that mean they have a higher chance of getting seriously ill should avoid close-contact situations.

If you are sick, please contact your healthcare provider. Wyoming residents with general questions about COVID-19 may send an email to.

Non-medical information about COVID-19 is available by calling 2-1-1 or. 

Public health nurses can be a helpful source of information.


If you think you have been exposed to someone with COVID-19, please follow the
recommendations below to monitor your health and help prevent the spread of disease to others if
you become sick.

How do I know if I was exposed?
It is likely that you need to be in direct close contact with someone with COVID-19 when they have symptoms, or
during the 48 hours (2 days) before they develop symptoms, to get infected. Close contact includes:
Being in direct contact with respiratory droplets from a sick person with COVID-19 (e.g., being coughed or
sneezed on, sharing utensils).
If you have not had direct close contact with a person with COVID-19 your risk of exposure is low. You can
continue your normal activities. You should monitor yourself for symptoms, and stay away from others if you get
sick.

What should I do if I was in close contact with someone with COVID-19 while they were ill, but I am not
sick?
You should monitor yourself for fever (or signs of fever such as body aches and chills), cough, shortness of breath,
or sore throat for 14 days after the last day you were in close contact with the person with COVID-19. Do not go to
school or work. Avoid public spaces, public activities, and group gatherings. You should avoid public places for 14
days.

What should I do if I get sick?
If you develop symptoms of fever (or signs of fever such as body aches and chills), cough, shortness of breath, or
sore throat, even if your symptoms are mild, you may have COVID-19. You should isolate yourself from others,
including others who live or spend time in your home. Do not go to school or work. Avoid public spaces, public
activities and group gatherings.
If you have a condition that may put you at a higher risk of developing severe disease; have chronic medical
conditions, are over the age 60, or are pregnant, call your healthcare provider and let them know that you have
been exposed to someone with COVID-19.
If you do not have a high-risk condition and have mild symptoms, you should isolate yourself from others,
including those who live or spend time in your home. Do not go to school or work. Avoid public spaces, public
activities and group gatherings. You should get rest and stay hydrated. Call your healthcare provider if you want
medical advice and tell them that you were exposed to someone with COVID-19. Your healthcare provider can
help you decide if you need to be evaluated in person or tested. Learn more about what to do if you are sick.

If you have a medical emergency and need to call 911, tell the dispatch personnel that you may have been
exposed to COVID-19. If possible, put on a facemask before emergency medical services arrive or immediately
after they arrive.
If I developed symptoms, when can I resume my normal activities?
If you are sick, you must stay home until: At least seven days have passed since your symptoms first began.
Having a test will not change the advice to stay home if you are sick.
