CDC recommends that all people defer travel on cruise ships, including river cruises, worldwide. That’s because the risk of COVID-19 on cruise ships is high. Older adults and people with serious chronic medical conditions, such as heart disease, diabetes, or lung disease, should especially defer travel on cruise ships, including river cruises, because of their increased risk for severe disease.

Passengers who return from a cruise ship or river cruise voyage are advised to stay home for 14 days, monitor their health, and practice social distancing.

CDC has issued a Level 3 Travel Health Notice for cruise ship travel.

Stay home for 14 days from the time you return home from a cruise ship or river cruise and practice social distancing:
Take your temperature with a thermometer two times a day and monitor for fever. Also watch for cough or trouble breathing. Use this temperature log to monitor your temperature.
Stay home and avoid contact with others. Do not go to work or school.
Keep your distance from others (about 6 feet or 2 meters).

Learn what CDC is doing to help cruise ship travelers during the COVID-19 pandemic.

If you get sick with fever or cough in the 14 days after you return from travel:

Stay home. Avoid contact with others.
You might have COVID-19; most people are able to recover at home without medical care.
If you have trouble breathing or are worried about your symptoms, call or text a health care provider. Tell them about your recent cruise ship or river cruise travel and your symptoms.
Call ahead before you go to a doctor’s office or emergency room.
If you need to seek essential medical care for other reasons, such as dialysis, call ahead to your doctor and tell them about your recent cruise ship or river cruise travel.

Your return travel plans may be impacted. Foreign health officials may implement formal quarantine procedures if they identify a case of COVID-19 aboard your cruise ship.
If you travel on a cruise ship or river cruise and disembark in a foreign port, you might not be able to receive appropriate medical care or be medically evacuated if you get sick.
Some countries might refuse to dock your ship or allow passengers to disembark.