Encourage your staff or community members to protect their personal health.	Post the signs and symptoms of COVID-19:	fever, cough, shortness of breath.	Encourage people to stay home when sick.	Clean surfaces that are frequently touched --things such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, electronics, and doorknobs.	Limit events and meetings that require close contact.	Stay up to date on developments in your community.	Create an emergency plan for possible outbreak.	Assess if community members are at higher risk and plan accordingly.		Send home or separate anyone who becomes sick.	If you identify a case, inform people who might have been exposed.	Continue to safely clean and disinfect the person's area.	Connect with your local health departments.	Cancel large meetings or events.	Put your infectious disease outbreak plan into action.				Coordinate with local public health department and other correctional/detention facilities.	Require staff and visitors to stay home if sick.	Offer seasonal flu shots because limiting cases of flu can help speed the identification of people with COVID-19.	Provide no-cost access to soap and encourage frequent hand washing.	Plan for how to medically isolate and care for sick people.	Plan for potential staff shortages.		Limit non-medical transfers in and out of the facility.	Screen all new entrants, staff, and visitors prior to entering the facility.	Be on the lookout for symptoms and address them immediately.	Clean and disinfect the facility.	Reinforce good hygiene practices.	Use multiple social distancing strategies.	Communicate regularly.		Activate your emergency plan and notify public health officials.	Give any person who is sick a face mask and separate them from others.	Send sick staff home.	Quarantine any close contacts.	Clean and disinfect the facility.	Screen for COVID-19 symptoms as part of release planning.	Restrict non-medical transfers in and out of the facility.	Cancel group gatherings.	Suspend visitation and provide virtual alternatives if possible.	Use multiple social distancing strategies.																																																																																																																																																																																																																								