Encourage your staff or community members to protect their personal health.	Post the signs and symptoms of COVID-19:	fever, cough, shortness of breath.	Encourage people to stay home when sick.	Clean surfaces that are frequently touched --things such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, electronics, and doorknobs.	Limit events and meetings that require close contact.	Stay up to date on developments in your community.	Create an emergency plan for possible outbreak.	Assess if community members are at higher risk and plan accordingly.		Send home or separate anyone who becomes sick.	If you identify a case, inform people who might have been exposed.	Continue to safely clean and disinfect the person's area.	Connect with your local health departments.	Cancel large meetings or events.	Put your infectious disease outbreak plan into action.							Plan for disruption of typical services like, hospitals, stores, banks, etc.						Notify local health authorities if there is a COVID-19 case in your retirement community or facility 																																																																																																																																																																																																																											