What are coronaviruses?
Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that cause infection in humans and various animals, including birds and mammals such as camels, cats and bats. Some animal coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are communicable from animals to humans. To date, it has been confirmed that seven coronaviruses can also cause infection in humans. When animal coronaviruses evolve, infect humans and spread between humans, this can lead to outbreaks such as MERS-CoV and SARS.

Where did the new coronavirus (COVID-19) originate?
COVID-19 is a new strain of the coronavirus which has not previously been detected in humans. The outbreak started in the Chinese city of Wuhan, capital of Hubei province. The outbreak initially appeared to be linked to South China Seafood City. Seafood, chickens, bats, marmots and other wild animals are sold at this market, suggesting that the virus likely originates from an animal source. The virus is human-to-human transmissible and has meanwhile spread to other countries.

What are the symptoms of the new coronavirus (COVID-19)?
The symptoms range from mild to severe respiratory disorders with fever, coughing and breathing difficulties. The elderly and people with existing chronic conditions appear to be more vulnerable to serious symptoms. Certain population groups are considered to be more at risk; they are more vulnerable to developing serious symptoms. These are mainly people over 65 years of age and people suffering from serious chronic diseases.

What does a coronavirus (COVID19) infection mean for a healthy person in their twenties, thirties or forties?
The chance that a healthy person in their twenties, thirties or forties will get the coronavirus is just as high as the chance that someone else becomes infected by the virus. Hospital admissions and other complications related to the coronavirus are rare within this age group. However, complications are rare in this age group, which means that few people need to be hospitalised due to the coronavirus.

Who is more at risk?
People over 65 years of age, people with diabetes, people with heart disease, lung or kidney disease and people whose immune system is weakened.

Are pregnant women more at risk?
There is no scientific evidence that pregnant women are more vulnerable to this infection or to its consequences. It is reassuring that there are few pregnant women among the very ill. There are also very few serious cases of infection among women of childbearing age. There is no evidence that an infection during pregnancy has a negative effect on the fetus or that the virus can be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy.

Are children more at risk of being infected?
Children may also become infected with the coronavirus, but they run little risk of becoming very ill. However, they can easily transmit the virus, even if they have no symptoms yet. We therefore advise avoiding contact between children and risk groups, such as their grandparents.

I run a higher risk to become severely ill with the coronavirus, what should I do?
Stay home as much as possible. Avoid contact with others outside your family and follow all hygiene measures carefully. It is also better for family members to avoid contacts with other people.

Am I protected against COVID-19 if I got vaccinated against influenza or pneumococcus this year?
Influenza and the virus that causes COVID-19 are two very different viruses. The seasonal influenza vaccine does not protect against COVID-19. The pneumococcal vaccine does not protect against viral pneumonia.
How does the coronavirus spread?
The coronavirus spreads from human to human via small droplets that are released when coughing and sneezing. Via these droplets, the virus ends up in the air, on objects and surfaces. Whoever inhales these droplets or gets them through their hands into their mouth, nose or eyes can become infected with the virus. There is no evidence that the contamination occurs through the skin. The risk of infection is reduced by keeping more than a metre away from sick people, touching one’s face as little as possible and paying attention to good hand hygiene.
Does it make sense to wear a face mask for protection against the novel coronavirus?
Wearing face masks to prevent coronavirus infection, only makes sense in hospitals where patients with the coronavirus are treated and in laboratories where specimens of these patients are tested. For the time being, wearing face masks in public places has no added value at all. If you want to know more about the usefulness of a mouth mask, please read the interview.

How long does the corona virus survive on smooth surfaces and materials, and can I get infected like this?
The corona virus can survive several hours (possibly days) on smooth surfaces and materials (such as door handles, handrails, tables, etc.). Anyone who ingests virus droplets through the hands in the mouth, nose or eyes can become infected with the virus. It is important to wash hands regularly and thoroughly after contact with surfaces that are touched by many people. By disinfecting a surface, the virus particles are removed. On absorbent material (such as cardboard, paper, textiles…) the virus cannot survive well. The virus is very sensitive to dehydration, heat and sunlight.
Is there a risk of infection through contact with packaging?
This risk exists, but is much smaller than through direct contact with an infected person. In ideal conditions, the corona virus survives on average around three hours on smooth surfaces and materials (such as door handles, handrails, tables, etc.). On absorbent materials (such as cardboard, paper, textiles, etc.), the virus cannot survive well. The virus is very sensitive to dehydration, heat and sunlight. Anyone who ingests virus droplets through the hands in the mouth, nose or eyes can become infected with the virus. It is important to wash your hands regularly and thoroughly after contact with surfaces and packaging that are touched by many people.
Will the coronavirus disappear in the spring?
There is currently no evidence that the coronavirus will slow down or disappear due to spring weather. If we compare with other coronaviruses, it is possible that the new virus will also show a seasonal course, and that spring will slow down the spread due to higher temperatures and UV light. After a few months out of circulation, the virus may come back later. However, it is too early to know the pattern of this virus.
I am a train controller, a receptionist, I work at the airport desk: is it dangerous to constantly take objects from people?
Taking and touching objects from people and passing them on is hard to avoid. Hence the importance to wash your hands regularly and thoroughly. Try to be especially careful to touch your face with your hands as little as possible.
Can I be contaminated through food?
To this day, food has not been identified as a probable source or route of transmission of the virus. In addition, coronaviruses are not highly resistant viruses in the environment and are rapidly inactivated when they end up on surfaces. In the current state of knowledge, the likelihood of a consumer becoming contaminated with Covid-19 through food is therefore very low and unproven. Whatever the case, the FASFC reminds professionals that compliance with good hygiene practices is essential and prevents most contaminations:
Prepare food separately, especially when handling raw meat,
Wash food preparation surfaces, especially those used for raw meat preparations, with soap and hot water,
Wash hands with soap and warm water between each handling of food,
Cook all raw meat sufficiently (70°C through for at least 2 minutes),
Avoid preparing food if you are sick.
Can pets infect humans if they have been in contact with infected persons?
The risk of contracting Covid-19 through contact with pets is currently considered negligible, as Covid-19 is mainly transmitted through close contact between humans. Even though Covid-19 is suspected to have originated from wild animals and has since adapted to humans (making it a ‘humanised’ virus), until now there is no evidence to suggest that pets pose a risk to humans due to the transmission of Covid-19. That is why we advise you to apply the general rules of hygiene (avoid close contact with your pet, especially if you are sick, wash your hands after touching an animal) if you come into contact with animals that may carry the virus for a brief period of time due to environmental contamination.

Are there new cases in Belgium?

See also the epidemiological bulletin on the Sciensano website.

What symptoms should I look out for?
If you feel sick, have a cough, a sore throat, breathing difficulties, and have a fever of more than 38 degrees, the coronavirus is one of the viruses you may have contracted. Moreover, if you have recently traveled to one of the countries that have been severely affected by the coronavirus, such as China or Italy, or if you have been in contact with people who have been infected or who have traveled there, you need to be even more vigilant.

What should I do if I have symptoms?
Do not show up unannounced to your doctor’s office or an emergency service: instead, contact your doctor by telephone first. Mention your symptoms, contacts and travel history. Based on a specific procedure, your doctor will be able to assess who should be considered for a coronavirus test. Please bear in mind that you may also have contracted seasonal influenza.
How can I avoid infecting the people around me? How can I avoid getting infected if someone around me is infected?
We have prepared a number of tips for people in isolation and those around them. 

What can I do to protect myself and others?
Everyone can contribute to the fight against the coronavirus! Some people may be infected with the coronavirus but not show any symptoms, which means they do not know that they can transmit the virus.Anyone can apply the following hygiene measures:

Stay at home when you are sick.
Very important: wash your hands regularly with soap and water.
Sneeze and cough into a paper tissue. Use a new paper tissue every time and dispose of it in a lidded bin.
If you have no tissue at hand, cough or sneeze in your elbow.
It is safer to keep enough distance in your social interactions to slow down the spread of the virus.

Avoid shaking hands or kissing when greeting someone.
Watch out for those most at risk: people over 65 years of age, diabetics, people with heart, lung or kidney diseases, children under 6 months of age, pregnant women and people with a weakened immune system.
-Children do not get seriously ill from the coronavirus, but they can spread it easily. That is why contact between children and older people should be avoided.
Avoid contact with people who are visibly ill, or keep your distance.

Are there specific measures to be taken/observed in care homes?
his is very important, as the elderly and people with a chronic disease are more at risk to develop a serious form of coronavirus. Therefore, it is important to pay special attention to them.The legislation on care homes is a competence of the regions. Please consult their recommendations: for Flanders, for the Walloon Region, for the Brussels-Capital Region.

How should I wash my hands?
Wash your hands, preferably with warm or lukewarm running water and liquid soap.
If you are on the road and cannot wash your hands, touch your face as little as possible and wash your hands on arrival.
If you don’t have water, soap and a towel nearby and still want to wash your hands, you can use alcohol gel. You can find instructions on how to wash hands properly online.



When can I go outside?
You’re expected to stay home as much as possible. You’re only allowed to come out if necessary for the following things:  


Making a trip in the context of your work 
Going to an authorized store 
Going to the ATM or the post office 
Going to the doctor 
Providing assistance to vulnerable people (minors, elderly, disabled or other vulnerable persons) 
These measures will apply until 19 April.

What can I do myself?
You have to respect the general hygiene measures and to keep a distance of at least 1.5 meter with other people, except for members of a family living under the same roof. For example, by always leaving a free seat between two people during a necessary meeting. You have to avoid putting a mix of different ages in the same place.
Public services
Do administrative services remain open?
Administrations must continue to function in order to guarantee their services, subject to social distancing measures and/or teleworking where possible. The public administrations must inform the public about the possibilities of obtaining documents and information via alternative channels (online). The administration must give preference to these alternative channels to limit the number of journeys made.
Is door-to-door collection of household waste allowed to continue?
Yes, the various waste collections (residual waste, green waste, paper and cardboard and PMD) can continue. Collection of scrap iron can also be continued with respect for social distance.
Are the recycling parks closed?
The rules for container parks can be found on the websites of the regions concerned.
The rules for Flanders can be found at. 
The rules for Wallonia can be found at. 
The rules for Brussels can be found at. 

Will I get any mail?
Yes, the mailmen will keep delivering your letters.
Can I still go to the library?
Libraries are considered to be a public service and must be guaranteed to remain open in a collection function with respect for social distancing measures.
Can we make trips to bottle banks, clothing containers, underground containers for glass and PMD?
Yes, that is allowed.
Should provincial domains be closed?
The recreational areas of these domains must be closed (e.g. playgrounds, etc.). However, parks and woodland can remain open, subject to social distancing measures. This must be supervised.
Can road works and utilities in general still go ahead?
Yes, subject to social distancing measures.
Are the municipal and provincial councils continuing?
Yes, insofar as the agenda items cannot be postponed and if the meeting cannot take place virtually.
Do the CPASs fall under 'the institutions for care, reception and assistance for elderly persons, for minors, for disabled persons and for vulnerable persons'?
Yes. A CPAS provides essential services.
Does the CPAS service have to continue organising food distribution or not?
Yes, subject to social distancing measures, this falls under health care.
Are enterprise counters allowed to remain open?
They must organise themselves remotely as much as possible and if absolutely necessary they can open, subject to social distancing measures.
Are there specific provisions for public toilets and hygiene?
For reasons of public order and hygiene, we recommend that you leave these open or provide an alternative. The municipality must take the necessary hygienic measures.
Do the Local Reception Initiatives (LOIs) fall under 'asylum and migration services including asylum reception and detention in the context of forced return'?
Yes.
Can the public services still clean up fly tipping in public areas?
Yes, this is important in the context of hygiene. Citizens’ initiatives are not allowed.
Are private litter cleaning actions still allowed?
No, we encourage people not to drop litter on the street. Of course, litter cleaning actions do not fall under essential travel.
Is the detection and disposal of explosives on the coast covered by the prohibition?
This is permitted because it falls under safeguarding public safety.
Will call centres for people in need (suicide, domestic violence, etc.) remain available?
Yes, they will. They have to respect general hygiene and social distancing.

There's a cell phone mast on my private property, on top of the hospital... Should I give the operators' maintenance teams access to these antennas?
Yes, it is essential that the electronic communications are maintained and that the operators can do all the necessary maintenance.


Will stores stay open?


All other stores are closed but are encouraged to continue their activities by phone or online, if they can guarantee home deliveries. For these businesses, delivery within the store itself is not allowed.

What does 'food shops' cover?
Only shops and catering establishments (horeca) that primarily sell food products may remain open, if:

• there is no consumption on site; • and the necessary measures have been taken to prevent consumption on site; • and it is possible to maintain social distancing between customers. This includes food shops such as supermarkets, grocery stores, drinks stores, organic and farm shops, butchers, bakeries, fish shops, food banks, etc. Food distribution via vending machines is still authorised.

What about shops selling both food and non-food products?
The Ministerial Order of 23/03/2020 authorises food shops, night shops and pet food shops to remain open. Food shops (for humans and animals) that also offer non-food as a secondary product (e.g. stationery) will remain open and may continue to sell any stationery products. Butchers, bakeries, chocolatiers, ice-cream shops, delicatessens, wine shops and shops selling alcoholic beverages may also remain open, provided they do not offer tasting on site. Shops that offer food only as a secondary product must close. All other shops (clothes shops, electrical shops, DIY shops, tobacconists, stationery shops, perfumeries, chemists, furniture shops, toy shops, photographers, carwashes, etc.) must close, but these shops may, if possible, continue their telephone and online activities if home delivery can be guaranteed. Collections or takeaways from shops are not allowed. Shops with basic facilities for newborns may remain open.
What are the specific measures applicable to shops that remain open?
The following precautions must be respected:
The necessary measures must be taken so that social distancing measures can be guaranteed, especially the distance of 1.5 meter between people.
Supermarkets can only have in a maximum of 1 customer per 10m² and the customers may only be present for a maximum of 30 minutes.
If possible, people have to go alone to the store.
Supermarkets are not allowed to offer sales and promotions.
Food stores may be open from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Night shops must close at 10pm.
What are the permitted opening hours for the shops that remain open?
The Ministerial Order provides for a change in opening hours. Before the corona crisis, shops were allowed to remain open until 8.00pm (and 9.00pm on Friday evening). These shops can now remain open until 10.00pm. Shops open at 7 o’clock, also for example bakeries who used to open at 6 o’clock now have to open at 7 o’clock. Night shops may be open between their usual opening hours and 10.00pm. The Board of Mayor and Aldermen may, for special and temporary circumstances, grant a derogation from the opening hours to the shop units located within the territory of the municipality or city. This must be at the request of the shopkeepers in question and for a maximum of 15 days per year.
Can the weekly closing day for food shops be changed?
Food retailers must remain closed on their weekly closing day. The Ministerial Order of 23/3/2020 does not provide for a lifting of the obligation of a weekly closing day. Night shops also have to respect their weekly closing day.
Can an obligation be imposed to keep shops open?
If public order or the general interest so requires, the mayor can order the necessary police measures, including the opening of businesses.
Can security services be called in to monitor and secure the food chain, supplies and retail?
Yes. Private and special security services are part of the crucial sectors and essential services listed in the Annex to the Ministerial Order of 23 March 2020.
Do we need to build up a food supply?
This is unnecessary. Food stores continue to be stocked in a normal way and remain open as usual.
Can I buy enough medicines?
Yes, there are no problems with the supply of medicines. To prevent hoarding, you only get 1 box of medicines containing paracetamol, unless a medical prescription states otherwise.
Can you pay with cash?
Electronic payments are encouraged. Cash money is not infected, but by paying electronically allows you to respect the social distance.
What other measures are planned to prevent stockpiling?
E-commerce and collection at pick-up points is being encouraged. Exorbitant prices can be reported at.

What is the situation with the legal guarantee on consumer goods?
There is no exception to the usual rules in this type of situation: the consumer must inform the seller of the defect (mail, e-mail, etc.) as soon as possible and not make it worse. The consumer will therefore be able to prove that the problem occurred during this exceptional period and that they have taken the necessary steps to inform the seller as required. Even if they have not been able to receive the information because of a closure due to the coronavirus, the seller cannot invoke the fact that the legal term has expired and refuse to take action. From that moment on, the warranty period will in principle be suspended until the seller offers a solution (repair or replacement).
Are volunteers allowed to offer their services to food shops?
According to the Volunteer Act of 3 July 2005, volunteers can in principle only be deployed by organisations that pursue a not-for-profit objective. The Volunteer Act does not allow volunteer work for commercial enterprises.
Do cafes and restaurants remain open?
Cafés, nightlife and party rooms must close. Restaurants must close their dining rooms. The ban also applies to the terraces of these establishments. Company restaurants must also close. Terrace furniture must be brought in.
Can we still pick up and order food?
Restaurants that offer home delivery, a catering service or drive-in are allowed to open their kitchens. When you pick up food, you have to respect the social distance rules.
Will chip shops and sandwich shops remain open?
Snack bars, sandwich shops, chip shops… stay open. Care must be taken to avoid long queues and have them outside. Eating there is forbidden, also on the terraces of these establishments.
Are food trucks, kiosks and food stands allowed?
Food trucks should be equated with food stalls on the market. They therefore cannot stay open. A mobile seller of roast chicken is considered a food truck.
Are hotels open?
To respond to the need of accommodation in case of an essential trip, hotels remain open without access to a bar, restaurant, common rooms and recreational areas. Hotel meeting rooms are closed.
Can hotel restaurants stay open?
A hotel’s kitchen can stay open but its restaurant must close, so it can offer room service.
What about other types of accommodation?
Holiday homes, campsites, B&B’s, holiday parks, AirBnB’s have to close for tourism. The permanent residents of this type of accommodation may, of course, continue to live here.
Various holiday parks and cottages are being used as permanent accommodation for employees of Electrabel for essential services (offshore wind farms, Doel, Tihange, etc.). Are there any exceptions to this?
Permanent residents who have their permanent home there are allowed to stay.
What about caravan sites?
Permanent residents are allowed to stay. However, travelling to another site is not an essential journey, so we advise the mayor to take the necessary steps to facilitate the stay of these people until the end of the crisis.
Can e-commerce traders continue to work if they are not considered essential (e.g. clothes, birth listing, perfumery,…)?
Yes, they can continue their activities if they respect social distance. Home delivery is preferred, without entering the home. Collection at official collection points is allowed.

Companies that want to set up an online sales system must ensure that they organize home delivery. Customers are not allowed to pick up their orders directly from the store.

Can I still order parcels online?
Yes, online shops remain open and can continue to deliver. The delivery of your parcel is contactless.
Can home delivery services (Bpost, DHL, etc.) continue to work?
Yes, in fact this is encouraged, subject to social distancing measures. Collections from official pick-up points are permitted.
Is the sale of plants and flowers allowed in shops selling food and pet food?
Shops selling food and pet food may also sell flowers and plants subject to social distancing measures. Retail outlets that only sell flowers and plants remain closed as ‘non-essential’ businesses, although they can be active online with home delivery.
Is my local market open?
Markets are prohibited except in municipalities where they are necessary for the food supply of the local population, when there is no supermarket, for example. If so, only food stands may open and the local government must be able to guarantee the measures of social distance. If that is not possible, the market will be closed.
Can a market stall provide home deliveries?
Yes, home deliveries are possible, subject to social distancing measures.
Can opticians and auditory care shops remain open?
The shops must be closed and customers can only receive care in an emergency, subject to social distancing measures. Care or sales which can be postponed must be postponed. People are expressly advised not to have eye tests, due to the risk of contamination via eye fluid.
May paramedical shops remain open?
No, paramedical stores have to close.
What about hairdressers?
Hairdressers have to close.
What about beauty salons and sun centers?
Beauty salons and sun centres are closed. Beauticians cannot offer their services at home.
Can tattoo shops stay open?
No, tattoo shops have to close.
Can construction activities continue?
Construction activities may take place outdoors, subject to social distancing measures. This also applies to working indoors in vacant buildings and dwellings. For indoor repairs, urgency in the context of safety, welfare and hygiene is a strict requirement (plumbers, repairs).
Can urgent repairs for safety, hygiene and ICT continue?
All urgent repairs can be carried out. Plumbers, garages, telecom suppliers, … can do urgent repairs.
What about chimney sweepers?
They are allowed to continue their activities, subject to social distancing measures.
Are repair services allowed to continue their activities?
Garages, tyre workshops and windscreen repair shops can only remain open for urgent repairs by appointment and subject to precautionary measures. Bike repair shops can also operate by appointment only and subject to social distancing measures, for urgent repairs. Urgent repairs/intervention at home can be carried out at the request of the consumer or the company, by appointment and subject to social distancing measures.
What about car breakdown assistance?
The vehicle breakdown service can remain operational during the week and weekends.
Are carwashes open?
No, carwashes are closed.
Can laundries stay open?
Yes, laundries can stay open according to their normal schedules. They have to respect hygiene measures and social distance.
Can cleaning services (service cheques, etc.) continue to work at customers' homes?
Yes, subject to social distancing measures.
Can independent window washers or window washers companies continue to work and meet the demands of companies that call on them?
Yes, if they respect social distance.
Should workers who work outside (municipal workers, green services, etc.) stay at home?
They may continue to work if social distance is respected, both during transport and at the workplace.
Are photographers allowed to do assignments outdoors?
No, they can’t.
Can I still go to the bank and the post office?
These services fall under the exceptions that can remain open during their normal opening hours, subject to social distancing measures.
Can the National Bank stay open?
Yes, subject to social distancing measures. The counters are closed, but the National Bank continues to operate.
Can bureaux de change and international money transfer agencies remain open?
These services can remain open, subject to social distancing measures. International payment flows must remain guaranteed.
Can insurance offices stay open?
Yes, but they are encouraged to use internet and telephony to continue their activities.
Can an insurance expert go on site?
Insurance experts can go on site in the course of their professional activities but only for urgent assessments and in compliance with social distancing measures.
Are lawyers, civil-law notaries and bailiffs allowed to continue to receive clients, mainly for signing deeds?
Yes, if necessary and if social distance is respected. Teleworking and electronical communication with their clients should be applied as much as possible.
Can mobile sales representatives continue to travel and work, given that working remotely is not feasible in their case?
No, commercial representatives are not allowed to continue their activities.
Can activities related to the housing market (such as home visits by estate agents, inspections by the municipal service for territorial matters, etc.) still take place?
No. A current sale may be completed, but new sales procedures may not be organised at the moment.
May surveyors continue to work?
Necessary work may continue, non-necessary work has to be postponed.
Is it allowed to move house, with or without removals companies?
Yes, moving house in urgent cases is allowed, subject to social distancing measures. It is recommended to postpone a non-essential house move.
I work in the private and special security sector, may I go to work?
The services of private and particular security have been explicitly considered as essential services. Keep in mind, these are only the fundamental and necessary activities of the private and particular security sector.

The private and particular security sector, which includes private security companies and in-house security services, as well as the security services of public transport companies, can continue to carry out their activities and missions. In the performance of their duties, they are asked to ensure social distancing as much as possible.

Companies for alarm systems and camera systems may only deviate from the obligation to social distancing when carrying out urgent maintenance or repair work. In all other activities, such as new installations, the general obligations such as the obligatory distance of 1.5 meter between each person (customer as well as colleague) must be respected.

The training institutions associated with the private and special security sector can only continue their activities through distance learning.

The security advisors can only continue their activities digitally.

Are sales and deliveries to professionals allowed?
Yes, wholesale businesses can remain open to professionals, subject to social distancing measures. Sales in shops or remotely, deliveries and collection in shops for professionals are allowed, subject to social distancing measures.
Can wholesale markets (for professional customers) continue (early market Brussels, fish market Zeebrugge, ...)?
Yes, if the social distance is followed as far as possible.
Can building materials dealers continue to supply their customers?
Yes, but only for professional use and in accordance with the rule of one customer per 10m². For private individuals, only delivery is possible.
Can shops that supply the agricultural sector remain open?
Yes, all companies that supply to the agricultural sector (phytoproducts, animal feed, etc.) continue to work but respect social distance and apply teleworking wherever possible.
Can industrial laundries that mainly wash (bed) sheets from care centers stay open?
Yes, they can, following the measures of general hygiene and social distancing.
My dog or cat is sick, can I still go to the vet?
Yes, we don’t lose sight of your pet’s health.
Are animal shelters open?
Animal shelters are closed. No visits are allowed. Adopting and giving up animals is possible by appointment only and subject to social distancing measures. Reception and essential care for animals is crucial and is therefore allowed. Volunteers are also allowed to contribute in this regard.
Can animal hotels stay open?
Animal hotels are open but only for people who need an essential shelter for the animal (e.g. due to death of a close relative, hospitalisation, etc.).
Can animal crematoria stay open?
Yes, only by appointment and subject to social distancing measures.
Are animal grooming salons open?
No, they are closed.


Are gatherings allowed?
Private and public activities of a cultural, social, festive, folkloric, sporting and recreational nature are prohibited. One exception to this is individual physical activity, or activity with family members living under the same roof, or the same friend each time (distance of 1.5 meters). As regards outdoor activities, only cycling, walking and walking tours are allowed. Travelling by car must be strictly avoided in this regard.
Are concerts and festivals canceled?
All events, both indoor and outdoor and regardless of the size of the public, are canceled until April 19 included.
Do theaters and cinemas stay open?
Theaters, operas, cinemas and cultural centers are closed to the public until April 19 included.
What about processions, carnivals, student parties...?
These are forbidden until 19 April included.
Are museums, exhibitions, tourist attractions still accessible?
Museums, exhibitions and tourist attractions are closed to the public until 19 April included. Tourist agencies are also closed.
Do drawing and music academies still organize their courses?
They can only give classes remotely.
Are theme parks and recreation centers closed?
Amusement parks, animal parks, indoor and outdoor playgrounds, petting zoos, casinos, gambling offices, leisure centres are closed until 19 April included.
Will sporting activities take place?
Sports meetings, events, group sports training, with or without an audience, are canceled until April 19 included.
Can I do individual sports or go for a walk?
Yes, as long as this activity is practised only between family members living under the same roof or always with the same friend, respecting 1.5 metres between each person.
Are sports halls closed?
Sports halls (including personal training), swimming pools, gymnasiums and golf clubs will be closed until 19 April included.
What about sports competitions and activities within the framework of youth movements?
Activities within the framework of youth movements, sports competitions, sports and leisure camps, group activities (group cycling, group walks…), go-karts for one or more people, private riding lessons, surfing…), playgrounds (indoor and outdoor), … are canceled until 5 April included.
Do elite athletes get exceptional access to sports facilities?
Yes, if they have elite sport status and they only do their training in an individual context. Group training is prohibited.
Are water sports allowed?
No.
Can I still use my drone?
Recreational use of your drone is only allowed on your own private land, around your home. More information can be found at.

Is the private rental of bouncy castles allowed?
No.
What about prostitution and prostitution neighborhoods?
They’re closing.


Can places of worship remain open to the public despite the fact that services are prohibited?
Yes, religious buildings and premises remain open, subject to social distancing measures. The managers of these buildings are expected to lay down the necessary rules in this regard, and ensure strict compliance.
Can religious services continue?
No, religious services are prohibited, with the exception of funerals and cremations.
Should weddings be postponed?
Civil marriage ceremonies can be celebrated, but not religious ceremonies. Wedding celebrations should be postponed.
What about funerals and cremations?
Funerals and cremations in close circles are allowed, subject to social distancing measures.
Can ashes be scattered at sea?
No, this has to be postponed.
Are cemeteries allowed to remain open?
Yes, subject to social distancing measures.



May one go somewhere else?
You should stay at home at most to avoid contact with other people who do not live under the same roof.
Are there any exceptions to this rule?
Travel is only allowed in cases of necessity and for urgent reasons, such as for example:

• Commuting between home and work; • Absolutely necessary travel (doctor’s visit, food purchases, travel to the post office, bank, pharmacy, petrol station or assistance to persons in need, parents travelling to their children’s crèche, etc.); • Physical outdoor activities, subject to social distancing measures. Walking, cycling and jogging are allowed. Travel by car for recreational purposes is not permitted.

Do I need a certificate to go to my place of work in Belgium?
No, there is no attestation system.
Can I go walking or jogging?
Yes, you’re allowed to get some air. You may only do this with people from your family who live under the same roof or with the same friend. You have to respect the social distance.
Does the car rental sector and their companies fall under essential services?
Yes, but only for necessary travel and essential services, and subject to social distancing measures. You should avoid travel by car as much as possible.
What about carwashes for trucks (cleaning of trucks transporting food)? Can exceptions be made for these circumstances?
This falls under essential service provision, if the cleaning is part of ensuring the safety of the food chain.
Can I still ride the bike recreationally?
No, movements must be limited to a maximum.
Can I take a means of transportation to go to a forest/park for a walk?
Movements must be limited to a maximum.
Is it allowed to use electric scooters for walking?
No, they are not allowed for recreational activities. However, they are permitted as means of transport for essential journeys.
What if I don't live under the same roof with my partner?
You have to limit the contact to your family and possibly one extra person. So you can still visit your partner. Of course, don’t do it if you yourself or he or she is sick or shows symptoms.
Can I still get together with friends?
No, all gatherings of 2 people or more are forbidden. Only family members living under the same roof can go out together.
May I visit my family who don't live with me?
Visiting family who do not live under the same roof is not recommended, except to provide assistance to vulnerable family members (elderly, minors, disabled persons, other vulnerable persons).
I'm in my dorm right now. Can I go back to my parents?
Students have to choose one place to stay for the all time of the crisis.
Can animal owners continue to visit their animals in the meadow or in the barn?
Yeah, if you follow the social-distancing rules.
Can children of divorced parents still be taken from one parent to another?
Yes, but try to limit all non-essential movements.
Can I go to my holiday home, for example in the Ardennes or the coast?
No, this is not allowed. This is to prevent social mixing and to prevent health facilities in those regions from becoming overloaded.
Are specific measures taken for boats and cruise ships?
Cruise ships and boats are not allowed to let passengers disembark, but can receive supplies. New cruises organised by boats or ships sailing under the Belgian flag are prohibited.
What about ferries to neighbouring countries?
Unlike boats and cruise ships, ferry travel is not regarded as a recreational activity, but as a means of transport. Consequently, ferry crossings are not prohibited in the context of essential travel, subject to social distancing measures.
Can I get my driver's license?
Driving lessons and exams are suspended. If, as a result of this suspension, the obligation with mandatory deadlines cannot be met, the person concerned will be granted a deferment.
Is it still possible to use shared cars? However, shared scooters and shared bicycles?
Yes, these are regarded as means of transport and are therefore not prohibited but limited to 2 persons maximum.
Can I sit in a van with my colleague?
Yes, only if you respect the social distance (1.5 meters).
Are specific measures applicable to the transport of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility?
The most important thing is that no new social mixing occurs. Transport can therefore continue, but it must be ensured as much as possible that the same combination of drivers and persons with reduced mobility/disabled persons is maintained, subject to social distancing measures.
Are personal assistants for people with disabilities allowed to continue their activities?
yes, absolutely.
Will public transport continue to run?
Yes, however, it has to be organized to guarantee the respect of the social distancing rules.

It is also asked to the passengers to respect the social distance as much as possible. The driver or conductor may also refuse access to the means of transport if the distance cannot be guaranteed. We ask you to only take public transport if it is really necessary. The payment terminals of public transport remain open.

To learn more about the offer of the public transport companies, see their websites.

What about taxi drivers (and other on-demand transport services?
Taxi services and alternative taxi services remain in use. Taxi drivers are only allowed to transport one person at a time in the taxi. A family living under the same roof may travel together in one taxi. It is recommended to ventilate the taxi regularly.
Carpooling? How many people are allowed in a private car?
As with taxis, only one person is allowed in the vehicle. A family is allowed in one vehicle. It is recommended to ventilate the car regularly. Travel by car should be avoided as much as possible.
What about voluntary transport of disabled and needy people?
These initiatives may continue, but with only one person on top of the driver per journey.
Can companies continue to organize transport by bus for their employees?
Yes, while respecting social distancing measures.
Can goods transport continue?
International goods transport is permitted.
Is it still allowed to travel abroad?
Any non-essential travel abroad is prohibited. The following reasons in particular are considered to be essential reasons for travelling abroad:
It is not necessary to have a written document justifying the reason for the journey. However, this is recommended.

The guidelines of the country in question must be observed.

May tourists continue to travel to Belgium?
No, tourism is forbidden. All recreational activities are forbidden.
Can I still go on a holiday or travel for business to a country or region with confirmed coronavirus cases?
The most recent travel advice can be found on the website of the FPS Foreign Affairs. The travel advice is continuously updated to enable travellers to make an informed decision.
Are specific measures taken for airports?
For the time being, there are no restrictive measures for airports. Passengers must observe the social distancing measures and the airport operator must facilitate these.
Will the restaurants and tax-free shops at airports remain open?
Yes, the restaurants and shops beyond security control remain open. This is with a view to spreading passengers as widely as possible in the airport terminal and subject to social distancing measures.
Is frontier work still permitted (e.g. French people working in Belgium)?
Yes, frontier workers may continue to carry out their activities within the limits of the measures imposed.
What about co-parenting for children between parents living on both sides of the border?
Co- parenthood of parents living in the border region (one in Belgium, the other in The Netherlands for example) can continue.
What rules apply to Belgians and other residents of our country who return via an airport?
Apart from the guidelines that apply to all residents of our country, these persons must remain in home quarantine for 2 weeks. This means that even if they are employed in an essential sector, they are not allowed to go to work. They can only do teleworking.
What rules apply to the persons who intend to pick up these people returning home from the airport?
Apart from the guidelines that apply to all residents of our country, these persons must remain in home quarantine for 2 weeks. This means that even if they are employed in an essential sector, they are not allowed to go to work. They can only do teleworking.
Some people have family living abroad and want to go to them to support them. Is this allowed?
If possible, see if there is an alternative solution. If not, this is only possible if the family member needs help, but it should be checked whether the country in question allows this as well.

What about people stuck in a foreign country?
You will find the necessary information on the website of the FPS Foreign Affairs.


I booked a flight or a trip to a country concerned by the coronavirus. What will happen if I decide to cancel it?
The FPS Economy has published advice for travellers in your situation. 


Is teleworking mandatory?
Teleworking is mandatory for all non-essential services, regardless of their size and for all employees for whom this is possible, without exception.
What about the functions for which teleworking is not possible?
When telework is not possible, companies must guarantee social distancing. This rule also applies to the organisation of transport by the employer. If these measures are not complied with, these companies risk fines in the event of a first infringement. In the event of a second infringement, they must close down.
Do all sectors and services have to follow these rules?
No, essential sectors can remain open and should try to ensure the best possible teleworking and social distancing. Non-essential services can only remain open if they can compulsorily insure telework and guarantee social distance, if not close.

The complete list of these crucial sectors and essential services has been compiled and attached to the Ministerial Decree of 18 March 2020.

Can co-working spaces still be rented out?
Yes, if the people who work here can’t do homework. They must strictly apply social distance and hygiene measures. People from the essential sectors are also allowed to go to co-working spaces and must respect social distance as much as possible.
Are outsourcers and ancillary services of essential sectors allowed to carry out their activities?
To the extent that they enable the essential sectors to continue to provide their services to the public, they may continue to provide their services, but only B2B, in the context of their existing commercial relationships. For example, lorries supplying food shops may still be cleaned, and window cleaning is permitted. Other examples must be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
What if an employer prohibits teleworking for 'organisational reasons'?
The employee can submit a complaint via the website of the FPS Employment.

What about a company that employs workers from different countries of the European Union?
The Ministerial Order of 23 March 2020 stipulates that companies - regardless of their size - are required to organise teleworking for every function where this is possible, without exception. However, this obligation does not apply to crucial sectors and essential services, which are listed in the Annex to the Ministerial Order. Nevertheless, these sectors must ensure that social distancing measures are respected as much as possible. During the weekend, the government also decided that borders will be closed to all traffic that is not strictly necessary. This means that workers based abroad can only cross Belgian borders if they are employed in crucial sectors and essential services. For the other sectors, foreign workers are obliged to telework. If this is not possible, the performance of their employment contract is suspended due to force majeure.
May tax checks at home continue?
You can find more information about this on the website of the FPS Finance.
What about technical inspections of installations? Likewise for maintenance checks.
An inspection is important in the context of general safety. Maintenance surveys that are not legally required are non-urgent and may not be carried out at the customer’s premises. Only urgent works and interventions.
Are there support possibilities for persons who receive temporary unemployment benefit because they belong to the at-risk group and therefore cannot go to work?
In Flanders, people who have difficulty paying their water and electricity bills can consult the website of the RVA. In Wallonia, people who have difficulty paying their water bill can consult the following website.

Can my employer make me take leave of absence if the company has to close down?
No, the employer can’t force you.
What if you are temporarily unemployed as a result of the coronavirus? Do you still have to pay your mortgage or personal loans?
Until 30 September, Belgian nationals in temporary unemployment no longer have to repay loans, and new loans are possible. For more information, please contact your bank.
Do documents relating to temporary unemployment still have to be stamped by the municipality?
As regards temporary unemployment due to the coronavirus, the procedure has been considerably simplified. You can find the relevant information on the website of the RVA. 

Can temporary unemployment be combined with other activities?
Due to the exceptional circumstances, it is authorised, from 13 March to 13 June 2020, to combine the temporary unemployment benefit with another activity (voluntary work, complementary activity). Temporary agency workers who would normally continue to be employed by the same user may, exceptionally, also be allowed to be in temporary unemployment during the interruption of activity by COVID-19, if the contractual link with the temporary agency worker is maintained.

Companies must respect social distance. Those who don't must close. Non-compliance is subject to fines. But what can an employee do about it? Where should he complain?
They can complain to the labour inspectorate via the website.

Can employers refuse to allow volunteer firefighters teleworking at home to respond to calls?
No, if the volunteer firefighter was given permission to respond to a call from their workplace, they can also do so while teleworking.
Can flexible arrangements be allowed for volunteer firefighters who are technically unemployed for tasks they are allowed to do?
It is permitted to carry out activities as a volunteer firefighter and civil protection volunteer without formalities; the fees received for this may be cumulated.


Do schools remain open?
Lessons will be cancelled (nursery/ primary/ secondary) as well as extracurricular activities. Schools ensure the reception of children, organised exclusively by the internal staff: or which the parents work in health care
or in the essential public sectors
or when the parents have no other option but to receive care from the grandparents
Schools where children are cared for reinforce their hygienic measures: no activities with several classes at the same time, continue to focus on washing hands, cleaning school furniture and regularly ventilating the classrooms.

The canteens may remain open.

Can new initiatives to organize the care of children be organized?
No, only organization already in place can pursue their activities. New initiatives beyond existing contacts are forbidden.
Are companies allowed to take initiatives for the care of children of their employees?
If such care systems already existed, they can continue. However, no new childcare initiatives can be set up. It is necessary to avoid putting together children who did not come into contact with each other beforehand.
How can I organize the reception of my children if I have to go to work?
It is not advisable to entrust children to the elderly, who are among the groups vulnerable to coronavirus. However, you can entrust your children to another member of your family, to a relative, to your children’s school which will organise the reception or to an independent carer. All solutions that do not involve vulnerable people are acceptable.
Are nurseries open?
Yes, nurseries and child minders remain open for children up to 3 years old.
How can child minders apply social distancing?
The necessary hygienic measures have to be followed but social distancing is difficult with regard to children. Social distancing measures do however have to be strictly observed by parents. It is true that groups of children from the same crèche are often seen as a uniform whole.
What about children of (possibly) infected parents?
If the parent is suspected of being infected, the children must stay at home. Young children show hardly any symptoms if infected, and only become ill in exceptional cases, although they pass on the disease, which is why it is requested that they are kept at home.
What about higher education institutions?
Universities and higher education institutions organize distance learning.
What about university students' exams?
This will be determined after a new evaluation of the situation.
Are evening courses or continuing education establishments continuing to operate?
Evening classes and continuing education must also develop distance learning solutions.
Are special education establishments and boarding schools open?
The boarding schools and special needs education remain open, but the lessons are cancelled.
Will schools for security professions be closed?
Schools for security professions continue primary education through remote classes, or help the crisis effort by providing training-on-the-job.
Can my handicapped child still go to the day care center?
Yeah, they stay open.


Are special measures taken in hospitals?
The active phase of the hospital emergency plan was activated from 14 March in all hospitals. All consultations, tests and planned operations have been cancelled. Only urgent and/or vital consultations, examinations and interventions may take place. All essential ongoing therapies (chemo, dialysis, etc.) may be continued.
Are visitors allowed in hospitals?
All visits are prohibited except for parents of children under the age of 18 and close relatives of patients in a critical condition or in the palliative phase. Counselling during vital consultations or examinations must be limited to a maximum of one person.
Do our hospitals and healthcare services have sufficient room to accommodate a huge number of affected patients?
Yes, our hospitals are ready. There are two reference hospitals where coronavirus patients can be admitted. If this proves to be insufficient more hospitals will be activated. Yes, our hospitals are prepared. All hospitals in our country know how to treat corona patients in safe conditions. For serious cases, we have two reference hospitals (Sint Pieters Hospital in Brussels and Antwerp University Hospital). If it turns out there’s not enough capacity, the hospitals may refuse non-urgent patients. If the number of infections keeps growing, the Health Minister can enforce additional measures, such as an interim measure to prevent care workers from taking a holiday.
Can I still give birth in the hospital? If so, under what conditions?
Of course, you can still give birth in a hospital. However, your hospital stay should be as short as possible; this will be determined in consultation with your attending physician. Your partner is allowed to be present during the birth and only a visit from your partner is allowed. Family visits are no longer allowed. You also follow the guidelines of the hospital.
Are physiotherapists, osteopaths, podiatrists etc. allowed to continue their activities?
Yes, health professions can continue their work, but non-urgent care must be postponed. They can find specific information on sciensano.be.
Should home nurses continue to work?
Yes, the home care remains.
Can blood donation centres stay open?
Yes, blood collections should continue, subject to social distancing and hygienic measures. Persons who are ill must, as always, be excluded. Donating blood is and will remain necessary, and must be encouraged, but it is important that the donor remains aware of their own health status.
Is the transport of blood, blood products and medicines still allowed?
Yes, this falls under essential transport.
What about non-urgent medical investigations?
Ask the organizing institutions and follow their guidelines.
Are visits allowed in residential care centres or institutions that, for example, care for disabled persons with co-morbidity?
Essential visits (primary caregivers, …) are allowed in order not to completely isolate residents socially.
Are psychologists essential?
Yes.
A "chat room" in an entrance hall of the WZC? (a temporary room with its own external door, which has a large glass panel in the wall and an intercom system installed). If 1 or maximum 2 family members enter the chat room, does this count as 'trip to help people in need'?
This is possible provided that the glass is disinfected after each visit. Naturally, remote communication (by phone, video call, etc.) is recommended instead, for hygienic reasons.

Are home and family support services allowed to continue?


Do vaccinations still need to be continued?
Yes, absolutely. The fact that vaccinations have been suspended in some places is extremely temporary in nature. They will be resumed as soon as possible.
What is the procedure for the medical care of homeless people who are ill, and illegally-resident people congregating in public areas?
They will be taken care of via public centres for social welfare (CPAS). The reception structures make no distinction between homeless people. Some people may be staying in the country illegally. In Brussels, there is a federal centre with 250 reception and accommodation places. This structure is managed by the Belgian Red Cross. There is an on-call medical service and social services, hygiene is assured and meals are provided.

If necessary, 15 containment rooms will be provided there. In Wallonia, the management of homeless people is the responsibility of the Minister of Health, with the cooperation of the provincial governors and the local authorities. 

Brussels Region: Urgent measures have been decided by the Minister of Social Action, Alain Maron. 

In Flanders The authorities (Flemish Agency for Care and Health) are providing recommendations to the reception and accommodation services for homeless people. 

Taking into account the various measures decided by the Regions and the Federal Centre, no civil protection interventions are envisaged for the time being.

Who's being tested?
The samples are provided for two categories of people:

All persons whose clinical condition requires hospitalization and whose attending physician suspects Covid-19.

Any health professional who meets the definition of “possible case”, and who has a fever.

Detailed information concerning the procedure for general practitioners can be found on the Sciensano website.

Can health workers continue to work when they show symptoms?
Healthcare workers can continue to work if they show mild symptoms, provided they use a protective mouth mask. In case of fever, ≥ 37.5°C, they cannot continue to work and should stay at home.
Can ambulance workers continue to work if they show symptoms?
Ambulance workers can continue to work if they show mild symptoms, provided they use a protective mouth mask. In case of fever, ≥ 37.5°C, they can no longer work and should stay at home.
Can patients with Covid-19 be treated with anti-inflammatory drugs?
This is currently being investigated. In the meantime, paracetamol is the first choice of treatment for fever and pain.
What is the procedure to follow for the treatment of the corpse of a person who died of Covid-19?
The FPS Public Health has drawn up a procedure for dealing with the body of a person who died of Covid-19. With respect for the wishes of the family, touching the person(s) deceased by Covid-19 is allowed, but it is crucial to comply with the hygiene measures afterwards.

Are visits to prisons allowed?
All forms of visit have been cancelled to limit the risk of infection. This means: visits in the visiting room, child visits, unsupervised visits (undisturbed visits, family visits) and visits behind glass. Persons who have to visit prisons for professional reasons are still admitted to prisons. These are mainly employees of the police, the security and intelligence services and the judicial authorities, lawyers, magistrates and care and assistance workers.