What is COVID-19?
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some cause illness in people and others cause illness in animals. Human coronaviruses are common and are typically associated with mild illnesses, similar to the common cold.

COVID-19 is a new disease that has not been previously identified in humans. Rarely, animal coronaviruses can infect people, and more rarely, these can then spread from person to person through close contact.

There have been 2 other specific coronaviruses that have spread from animals to humans and which have caused severe illness in humans. These are the:

severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS CoV).
Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS CoV).

	
What are the risks of getting COVID-19?
COVID-19 is a serious health threat, and the situation is evolving daily. The risk will vary between and within communities, but given the increasing number of cases in Canada, the risk to Canadians is considered high.

This does not mean that all Canadians will get the disease. It means that there is already a significant impact on our health care system. If we do not flatten the epidemic curve now, the increase of COVID-19 cases could impact health care resources available to Canadians.

The risk for COVID-19 may be increased for certain settings such as:

Have you been on a recent flight, cruise, train, or at a public gathering? Check the listed exposure locations to see if you may have been exposed to COVID-19.

People that fall into these categories should reconsider attending gatherings. This includes large gatherings and even smaller events in crowded or enclosed settings.

If you have symptoms (cough, fever or difficulty breathing), do not attend a mass gathering, event or places where people gather. You could put someone whose health is vulnerable at risk.

The risk for getting COVID-19 may be increased for travellers. Canadians are advised to avoid all non-essential travel. If you must travel, check the latest travel advice before you leave.

We will continue to adapt our risk assessment based on the latest data available.

Because COVID-19 is a new disease, we are still learning how it affects pregnant women. At this time, there is no evidence to suggest that pregnant women are at a greater risk for more serious outcomes related to COVID-19 or that their developing child could be negatively affected by COVID-19.

You can protect yourself from becoming ill by taking the following precautions:

For more information, refer to our factsheet on pregnancy, childbirth and caring for newborns: advice for mothers (COVID-19).

If you are pregnant and concerned about COVID-19, speak to your health care provider.



How does COVID-19 spread?

Human coronaviruses cause infections of the nose, throat and lungs. They are most commonly spread from an infected person through:

respiratory droplets generated when you cough or sneeze
close, prolonged personal contact, such as touching or shaking hands
touching something with the virus on it, then touching your mouth, nose or eyes before washing your hands
Current evidence suggests person-to-person spread is efficient when there is close contact.

What is the incubation period for COVID-19? What are the symptoms of COVID-19?

Those who are infected with COVID-19 may have little to no symptoms. You may not know you have symptoms of COVID-19 because they are similar to a cold or flu.

Symptoms may take up to 14 days to appear after exposure to COVID-19. This is the longest known incubation period for this disease. We are currently investigating if the virus can be transmitted to others if someone is not showing symptoms. While experts believe that it is possible, it is considered less common.

Symptoms have included: In severe cases, infection can lead to death.


How many COVID-19 cases are there currently in Canada?
On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) assessed COVID-19 as a pandemic.

This assessment by the WHO is not unexpected. Describing the situation as a pandemic does not change the WHO's assessment of the threat posed by COVID-19 and it does not change what the WHO is doing. It also does not change what countries around the world should do. For that reason, it does not change the approach we are taking in Canada.

Canada's public health system is prepared. Since the outset, the Public Health Agency of Canada (along with public health authorities at all levels of government across the country) have been working together to ensure that our preparedness and response measures are appropriate and adaptable, based on the latest science and the evolving situation.

Aside from Canada, other countries and regions are reporting cases (listed below). An official global travel advisory is in effect: avoid non-essential travel outside Canada until further notice.

COVID-19 is a serious health threat, and the situation is evolving daily. The risk will vary between and within communities, but given the increasing number of cases in Canada, the risk to Canadians is considered high.

This does not mean that all Canadians will get the disease. It means that there is already a significant impact on our health care system. If we do not flatten the epidemic curve now, the increase of COVID-19 cases could impact health care resources available to Canadians.

Where can I find more details about the cases reported in Canada?
Information on demographics, symptoms, and outcomes is currently available for 8,178 reported cases in Canada. This is because it takes time for health authorities to gather this information for each individual. The data below should be used to observe trends and not absolute numbers.

The epidemic curve (epi curve) in Figure 1 shows when cases became ill over time. The date of symptom onset for the first case of COVID-19 reported in Canada became ill on January 15, 2020. Additional cases occurred gradually from January to late February. These early cases were among travelers returning to Canada from countries where outbreaks of COVID-19 were already occurring and their close contacts. The number of cases increased sharply in March as the virus began to spread from one person to another in Canadian communities.

The grey zone in Figure 1 shows an incomplete picture. There is a one to two week delay between when people get sick and when their information is reported to the Public Health Agency of Canada. It takes time for people who become ill to seek healthcare, get tested, receive their laboratory result, and for public health authorities to gather information on their illness. More cases will be added as information becomes available.

The number of illnesses in Canada is continuing to increase and has not yet peaked.

Of the COVID-19 cases reported in Canada to date, approximately half (51%) are female. Approximately one third (31%) of cases are 60 years old and over (Figure 2).

Commonly reported symptoms among reported cases include cough (77%), headaches (57%) and weakness (56%).

Based on case reports received to date, 653 cases have been hospitalized, including 196 in intensive care.

214 have died of COVID-19 to date in Canada.

At this time, 71% of COVID-19 cases were related to community transmission, while 29% were either exposed while travelling or exposed to a traveler coming to Canada (Figure 3).
Where can I get COVID-19 information specific to my province or territory?Where to get COVID-19 information specific to your province or territory.

	I think I might have COVID-19.  Is there a self-assessment that I can do at home to help me determine if I need further care?

COVID-19 Symptom Self-Assessment Tool.

Can COVID-19 be transmitted when a person is not showing symptoms?

Those who are infected with COVID-19 may have little to no symptoms. You may not know you have symptoms of COVID-19 because they are similar to a cold or flu.
What is the treatment for COVID-19? Are there any natural health products that can treat or prevent COVID-19? Is there a vaccine to protect against COVID-19?
Most people with mild coronavirus illness will recover on their own.

If you are concerned about your symptoms, you should self-monitor and consult your health care provider. They may recommend steps you can take to relieve symptoms.

If you have received a flu vaccine, it will not protect against coronaviruses.

At this time, a vaccine or therapy to treat or prevent this disease has not yet been developed. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global review of therapies that may be used to treat or prevent the disease.

Health Canada is fast tracking the importation and sale of medical devices used to diagnose, treat or prevent COVID-19.
	What's the difference between self-isolating and isolating?

There is a difference between advice to quarantine (self-isolate) and advice to isolate. It is important to note these measures are in place to protect the health and safety of Canadians.

Quarantine for 14 days if you have no symptoms and any of the following apply:

Quarantine means that for 14 days you need to:
If you develop symptoms, even if mild, stay home and isolate yourself from others. Immediately call a health care professional or your public health authority.

While you are isolating: monitor your symptoms as directed by your healthcare provider or Public Health Authority.

How can I protect myself from getting COVID-19? What is physical distancing and how does it help to minimize COVID-19?


Canadians should continue to think ahead about the actions that they can take to stay healthy and prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Canada. This includes staying at home as much as possible and being prepared in case you or a family member becomes ill. Everyone should be practising physical (social) distancing. Even if you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, you could become infected by others.

As we continue to see transmission of the virus within different communities, we know that everyone must take precautions, even those who have not travelled outside of Canada.

In an effort to prevent the spread of COVID-19 within communities and across the country, all Canadians are advised to:

If you go out for a walk, do not congregate and always practise physical (social) distancing by keeping at least 2 metres apart from others at all times.


Together, we can slow the spread of COVID-19 by making a conscious effort to keep a physical distance between each other. Physical (social) distancing is proven to be one of the most effective ways to reduce the spread of illness during an outbreak.

This means making changes in your everyday routines to minimize close contact with others, including:

Proper hygiene can help reduce the risk of infection or spreading infection to others:

Coronaviruses are one of the easiest types of viruses to kill with the appropriate disinfectant product when used according to the label directions. Health Canada has published a list of hard surface disinfectants that are likely to be effective for use against COVID-19.

Although they do not claim to kill COVID-19, cleaners can play a role in limiting the transfer of microorganisms. Health Canada recommends cleaning high-touch surfaces often, using either regular household cleaners or diluted bleach. This bleach solution should be prepared according to the instructions on the label or in a ratio of 1 teaspoon (5 mL) per cup (250 mL). Directions are based on bleach that is 5% sodium hypochlorite, to give a 0.1% sodium hypochlorite solution.

These surfaces include:

Refer to the guidance on cleaning and disinfecting public spaces for more information.




Should the general population in Canada wear masks to protect themselves from COVID-19?

Medical masks, including surgical, medical procedure face masks and respirators (like N95 masks), must be kept for healthcare workers and others providing direct care to COVID-19 patients.

Wearing a non-medical mask (for example a homemade cloth mask) in the community has not been proven to protect the person wearing it. Strict hygiene and public health measures, including frequent hand washing and physical (social) distancing, will reduce your chance of being exposed to the virus.

Wearing a non-medical mask is an additional measure you can take to protect others around you.

Wearing a non-medical mask is another way to cover your mouth and nose to prevent your respiratory droplets from contaminating others or landing on surfaces. Just like our recommendation not to cough into your hands (instead, cover your cough with tissues or your sleeve) a mask can reduce the chance that others are coming into contact with your respiratory droplets.

If wearing a non-medical mask makes you feel safer and stops you from touching your nose and mouth, that is also good. But remember not to touch or rub your eyes.

It is important to understand that non-medical masks have limitations and need to be used safely.

If you choose to use a non-medical face mask:

Face masks can become contaminated on the outside, or when touched by your hands. When wearing a mask, take the following precautions to protect yourself:

Non-medical masks alone will not prevent the spread of COVID-19. You must consistently and strictly adhere to good hygiene and public health measures, including frequent hand washing and physical (social) distancing.


Is there a risk of contracting COVID-19 if I touch a surface that was potentially contaminated?
Are Canadians at risk for contracting COVID-19 if they receive a package or products shipped from other countries?

It is not certain how long COVID-19 survives on surfaces, but it seems to behave like other coronaviruses. Preliminary information on COVID-19 suggests that the virus may persist on surfaces for a few hours or up to several days depending on different conditions, such as:

Surfaces frequently touched with hands are most likely to be contaminated, including:

Products shipped within or from outside of Canada could also be contaminated. However, because parcels generally take days or weeks to be delivered, and are shipped at room temperature, the risk of spread is low. There is no known risk of coronaviruses entering Canada on parcels or packages.

To protect yourself from COVID-19, make sure to do the following when handling products shipped within or outside of Canada:




I am pregnant, am I at a greater risk for more serious outcomes related to COVID-19?

Because COVID-19 is a new disease, we are still learning how it affects pregnant women. At this time, there is no evidence to suggest that pregnant women are at a greater risk for more serious outcomes related to COVID-19 or that their developing child could be negatively affected by COVID-19.

You can protect yourself from becoming ill by taking the following precautions:

For more information, refer to our factsheet on pregnancy, childbirth and caring for newborns: advice for mothers (COVID-19).

If you are pregnant and concerned about COVID-19, speak to your health care provider.


Can COVID-19 be transmitted through food?

There is currently no evidence to suggest that food is a likely source or route of transmission of the virus and there are currently no reported cases of COVID 19 transmission through food. People are unlikely to be infected with the virus through food.

Scientists and food safety authorities across the world are closely monitoring the spread of COVID-19.

If we become aware of a potential food safety risk, appropriate actions will be taken to ensure the safety of Canada's food supply.

Coronaviruses are killed by common cleaning and disinfection methods and by cooking food to safe internal temperatures.

Learn more about food safety.


Can my pet or other animals get sick from this virus?

The current spread of COVID-19 is a result of human-to-human transmission. There is no evidence to suggest that pets or other animals play a role in transmitting the disease to humans. Scientists are still trying to understand if and how it affects animals.

Pets can contribute to our overall happiness and well-being, especially in times of stress. If you are feeling well (no symptoms of COVID-19) and are not self-isolating because of COVID-19 illness, you can continue to take walks with your dog or spend time with your pet. This can contribute to keeping both you and your pet healthy.

As a precautionary measure, if you have COVID-19 symptoms or are self-isolating due to contact with a COVID-19 case, you should follow similar recommendations around animals, as you would around people in these circumstances:

These measures are recommended as a precaution, and are basic practices to prevent transmission of diseases between humans and animals. If you have concerns, seek professional advice from your veterinarian or a public health professional who can help to answer your questions.

The Canadian Food Inspection Agency website has more information about animals and COVID-19.
I have recently returned from a trip outside of Canada.  What do I need to do?

The Government of Canada has put in place an Emergency Order under the Quarantine Act that applies to all travellers arriving in Canada in order to slow the introduction and spread of COVID-19 in Canada. Failure to comply with this Order is an offence under the Quarantine Act.

If you have recently returned to Canada and you have symptoms, you must ISOLATE. This is mandatory. If required, immediate medical attention will be provided upon arrival in Canada.

If you have symptoms but do not have a place to isolate, you will be required to isolate for 14 days in a facility designated by the Chief Public Health Officer of Canada.

If you have recently returned to Canada and you have no symptoms, you must QUARANTINE (self-isolate) yourself. This is mandatory. You are at risk of developing symptoms and infecting others.

You can take public transportation to get to your place of self-isolation after you arrive in Canada, but you must not stop on the way home, and practise physical (social) distancing at all times.

Have you been on a recent flight, cruise, train, or at a public gathering? Check the listed exposure locations to see if you may have been exposed to COVID-19.

The Government of Canada is working with federal and provincial partners to promote and verify compliance of the Emergency Order with active communication and spot checks.

If you are permitted to enter Canada, you will be:

Violating any instructions provided to you when you entered Canada is an offence under the Quarantine Act and could lead to up to:

Further, a person who causes a risk of imminent death or serious bodily harm to another person while wilfully or recklessly contravening this act or the regulations could be liable for:


I am planning to travel.  What is the current advice?

To limit the spread of COVID-19, the Government of Canada advises that you avoid all non-essential travel outside of Canada until further notice.

Many countries have put in place travel or border restrictions and other measures such as movement restrictions and quarantines.

Many airlines are suspending flights. Many airports are closing, preventing flights from leaving. Exit bans are becoming more frequent.

New restrictions may be imposed with little warning. Your travel plans may be severely disrupted and you may be forced to remain outside of Canada longer than expected. Canadian travellers should return to Canada as soon as possible.

Contact your airline or tour operator to determine options for cancelling or postponing your trip.

Making the choice to stay at home and to not travel outside of Canada is the best way to protect yourself, your family and the most vulnerable groups in our communities from the spread of COVID-19.

Although it is not advised, if you are still considering travel outside of Canada, you should do the following:



I have to travel.  How can I reduce my risk of infection?

If you must travel, take precautions against respiratory illnesses, and seek medical attention if you become sick.

Avoid spending time in large crowds or crowded areas.
Avoid contact with sick people, especially if they have a cough, fever or difficulty breathing.
Be aware of the local situation and follow local public health advice.
All travellers are reminded to follow these health precautions:

Wash your hands often with soap under warm running water for at least 20 seconds.
Use alcohol-based hand sanitizer only if soap and water are not available. It's a good idea to always keep some with you when you travel.

Cover your mouth and nose with your arm to reduce the spread of germs.
If you use a tissue, dispose of it as soon as possible and wash your hands afterwards.

If you become sick when you are travelling, avoid contact with others except to see a health care professional.

If you feel sick during your flight to Canada or upon arrival, inform the flight attendant or a Canadian border services officer.

If you do not have symptoms but believe you were exposed to someone who was sick with COVID-19, report this information to a Canada border services agent on arrival in Canada. This is required under the Quarantine Act. The Canada border services agent will provide instructions for you to follow.

We have put messaging on arrivals screens at international airports that will help guide travellers to inform a border services officer if they are experiencing flu-like symptoms.

In addition, information on what symptoms to identify and how to contact local health authorities will be provided to arriving travellers.

The Government of Canada is advising that you avoid all travel on cruise ships due to the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak, until further notice.

Cruise passengers include travellers from around the world who may be arriving from areas with known or unknown spread of COVID-19. The virus can spread quickly on board cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Older people and people with a weakened immune system or underlying medical condition are at a higher risk of developing severe disease.

Recent cruise ship outbreaks of COVID-19 indicate that a large number of individuals onboard can become infected. While the majority of affected passengers may experience mild symptoms, there have been a significant number of cases requiring hospitalization and critical care, and some deaths have been reported.

As the COVID-19 situation evolves, many countries outside of Canada are implementing policies and restrictions in order to contain the global outbreak. These restrictions may impact a cruise traveller's:

While abroad, if an outbreak of COVID-19 occurs on your cruise ship:

Although it is not advised, Canadians who choose to voyage on a cruise ship should also be aware that they may not be offered the opportunity to return to Canada on a government-organized repatriation flight, or could be responsible for the costs of repatriation travel.


I am a Canadian travelling abroad and I am experiencing symptoms.  What should I do?

If you are showing symptoms of COVID-19, reduce your contact with others:
Children who have mild COVID-19 symptoms are able to stay at home with a caregiver throughout their recovery without needing hospitalization. If you are caring for a child who has suspected or probable COVID-19, it is important to follow the advice for caregivers. This advice will help you protect yourself, others in your home, as well as others in the community.

If you become sick while travelling back to Canada:


Are Canadians currently able to travel to the U.S.? What actions are being taken at Canadian borders to stop COVID-19 from entering Canada?
As of March 21, 2020, there is a 30-day restriction on all non-essential travel at the Canada-U.S. border.

This restriction covers all travel of an optional nature, such as:

Healthy people who must cross the border for work or other essential purposes may continue to do so. Some examples of essential travel purposes are:

These travellers will only be let into the country if they have not been outside Canada or the U.S. in the 14 days before requesting entry into Canada.

Canada and the U.S. recognize how closely our economies are integrated. It is essential that trade continue during this pandemic. Economic supply chains remain open and we will work to ensure that access to goods and services is not interrupted.

Any foreign national who has symptoms of COVID-19 will not be allowed to enter Canada.

Foreign nationals arriving from the U.S. without symptoms of COVID-19 will be allowed to enter Canada only for essential travel.

Foreign nationals, excluding those arriving from the U.S., will not be allowed into Canada. However, there are exemptions to these restrictions for foreign nationals arriving from other countries.

Exemptions include, but are not limited to:
Additional exemptions include those providing critical services.

Entry screening is an important public health tool. Canada border services officers are taking steps to ensure any traveller who may have symptoms of COVID-19 are referred for further health screening and examination when required. 

Officers ask all travellers if they have a cough, fever or difficulty breathing, and visually inspect them for signs of illness.

In addition, they ask U.S. travellers and foreign nationals about the purpose of their visit.

Some travellers, such as truck drivers, firefighters and nurses, cross the border every day to work or study. They will not be impacted by the new border measures.

All international passenger flight arrivals have been redirected to 1 of 4 airports:

If you are returning to Canada and you have no symptoms, you must QUARANTINE (self-isolate) yourself for 14 days. This is mandatory. You are at risk of developing symptoms and infecting others. There are exceptions for workers who are essential to the movement of goods and people.

If you are Canadian or a permanent resident, and you have symptoms consistent with COVID-19, you may still enter Canada by land, rail or sea. You may not enter Canada by air, to protect the health of all travellers.

Those who have symptoms and are permitted to enter Canada must ISOLATE for 14 days. This is mandatory. If required, immediate medical attention will be provided upon arrival in Canada.

If you are not Canadian or a permanent resident, and you have symptoms consistent with COVID-19, you will not be permitted to enter Canada. 

If you show signs of an infectious disease, officials will contact a quarantine officer.

The quarantine officer will perform a more detailed assessment. If necessary, the quarantine officer may:

	
How is Canada supporting its citizens and businesses as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak?

The Government of Canada is taking immediate, significant and decisive action to help Canadians facing hardship as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak.I am a traveller trying to return home to Canada.  How do I get financial support while abroad?

You should avoid non-essential travel outside Canada until further notice. You are responsible for your personal travel decisions. If you are already outside Canada, think about returning as soon as possible and find out what commercial travel options are still available to you. There are fewer remaining options and you may experience a sudden hike in prices.

You should attempt to use your own financial means to arrange your return to Canada. For Canadians who have no available source of funds to return home, Canada has announced the creation of the COVID-19 Emergency Loan Program for Canadians Abroad.

Canadians, and, in exceptional circumstances, Canadian permanent residents, outside the country who are directly impacted by COVID-19 will be able to apply for an emergency repayable loan to facilitate their return to Canada and to cover basic essential needs while they work towards their return. Each application will be assessed according to their specific situation and needs. 

This emergency assistance is a repayable loan.How is Canada monitoring the supply of drug and medical devices to ensure that there are no shortages?The Government of Canada is actively monitoring the novel COVID-19 and its impact on the supply of prescription and over-the-counter drugs, natural health products and medical devices in Canada. We do this through regular contact with:

drug, medical device and natural health products manufacturers and importers
provincial, territorial and international partners
We are aware that there may be supply disruptions related to COVID-19 and are monitoring the situation closely.

Companies that market prescription drugs for human use in Canada must report anticipated or actual drug shortages on Drug Shortages Canada. We have contacted companies to remind them of this requirement. Industry stakeholder associations have also been asked to notify us of any early signals of shortages related to COVID-19. Drug and medical device shortage signals can also be reported by the provinces and territories, healthcare professionals or the public.

We will continue to use all available tools to help manage critical national shortages when they happen, and work with partners so that Canadians have access to the medications they need. Learn more about drug shortages in Canada.	What actions can my family and I take to protect against COVID-19?
Canadians should continue to think ahead about the actions that they can take to stay healthy and prevent the spread of any illness, especially respiratory infections.

Now and always during cold and flu season, stay home if you are sick. Encourage those you know are sick to stay home until they no longer have symptoms.

Since respiratory viruses, such as the one that causes COVID-19, are spread through contact, change how you greet one another. Instead of a handshake, a kiss or a hug, a friendly wave or elbow bump is less likely to expose you to respiratory viruses.

Practise frequent hygiene, which includes proper hand washing and coughing and sneezing etiquette. Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces, such as toys and door handles.

These are the most important ways that you can protect yourself and your family from respiratory illness, including COVID-19.

If COVID-19 becomes common in your community, you will want to have thought about how to change your behaviours and routines to reduce the risk of infection.

Your plan should include how you can change your regular habits to reduce your exposure to crowded places. For example, you may:
Your plan should also include what you will do if you become sick. If you are a caregiver of children or other dependents, you will want to have thought ahead to engage backup caregivers.

You should also think about what you will do if a member of your family becomes sick and needs care. Talk to your employer about working from home if you are needed to care for a family member at home.

If you become ill, stay home until you are no longer showing symptoms. Employers should not require a sick leave note as that will put added pressure on limited health care services.

Your plan should include shopping for supplies that you should have on hand at all times. This will ensure you do not need to leave your home while you are sick or busy caring for an ill family member.

Your plan should build on the kits you have prepared for other potential emergencies. For more information on how to prepare yourself and your family in the event of an emergency, please visit.

Refill your prescriptions now so that you do not have to go to a busy pharmacy if you do become sick. Consider seeing your health care provider to renew your prescriptions ahead of time.

At this time, it makes sense to fill your cupboards with non-perishable food items, so that you do not need to go shopping if you become sick.

It is easier on the supply chain if people gradually build up their household stores instead of making large-scale purchases all at once. To do this, you can add a few extra items to your grocery cart every time you shop. Good options are easy-to-prepare foods like:

It is also a good idea to have extra stores of:

The reason for stocking up on these items is not necessarily because you will need to self-isolate. Having these supplies on hand will ensure you do not need to leave your home at the peak of the outbreak or if you become ill.

If you or a member of your family become ill with COVID-19, there are precautions that should be taken in the home. Your health care provider will advise you if hospital care is more appropriate.

Children who have mild COVID-19 symptoms are able to stay at home with a caregiver throughout their recovery without needing hospitalization. If you are caring for a child who has suspected or probable COVID-19, it is important to follow the advice for caregivers. This advice will help you protect yourself, others in your home, as well as others in the community.

To prepare for these potential situations, you should have on hand:

Make sure that you get high-quality information about COVID-19 from reliable sources. The Public Health Agency of Canada is a reliable source of information, as are provincial and territorial public health authorities.

If you are finding that the news media is making you feel anxious, take a break from it.

Let your family, friends and neighbours know that you are making plans to prepare for COVID-19. Share your plan with them, as this might motivate them to make their own.

Talk to them about a buddy system in which you agree to check in on each other and run essential errands if you become sick.

As an employee, what role do I play in reducing the spread of infection?


Across Canada, we are changing the way we work to prevent the spread of COVID-19. For some workplaces, this may mean changing hours of operation, closing for a period of time or working from home. Others continue to go to work because their jobs are essential to keeping Canada functioning during this outbreak.

Essential workers are considered critical to preserving life, health and basic societal functioning. This includes, but is not limited to:

All employees should understand and comply with the infection prevention policies and practices in place in their workplaces. Employers should use the risk-informed decision-making guidelines for workplaces and businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Employers and employees will need to work together to protect their own health and their clients’ health, as well as deliver essential services.
I am planning a social gathering, are there specific actions that I need to take to protect others and myself?Physical distancing measures are a way to reduce COVID-19 transmission in the community by minimizing close contact with others, especially people who are at high risk for severe illness during the peak of the outbreak.

Some of the physical distancing measures need extensive preparation. Community planners should prepare for:
Physical distancing measures are a way to reduce COVID-19 transmission in the community by minimizing close contact with others, especially people who are at high risk for severe illness during the peak of the outbreak.

Some of the physical distancing measures need extensive preparation. Community planners should prepare for:

Respiratory illnesses like COVID-19 spread quickly in crowded spaces. Avoiding crowds can reduce the spread of infection. This type of precaution could have a significant impact on how a community functions.

Mass gatherings are settings or events where large numbers of people may be in close contact. If they are not planned and managed carefully, they can contribute to the transmission of respiratory pathogens, such as the virus that causes COVID-19. This can cause additional strain on the health care system during outbreaks.

The Public Health Agency of Canada recommends that event organizers and planners cancel or postpone in-person gatherings in alignment with the recommendations of their local public health authorities. Where possible, they should offer virtual or online alternatives.

Communities that are remote or isolated should consider stocking up on needed supplies like food and medicine. The supply chain may be interrupted or become unreliable.

Additional challenges should be taken into account. For example, some remote communities may have limited access to clean running water for frequent hand hygiene.

Those who experience homelessness may be at higher risk of contracting COVID-19 or developing complications due to COVID-19. This is because they may not be able to access and use traditional services and standard resources.

Organizations, community health workers and volunteers play an important role in helping prevent the spread of COVID-19 among those who experience homelessness. For more information, refer to our guidance on homelessness in the context of COVID-19.							Have a question?  Start here!	What COVID-19 information do you need?												Can COVID-19 be transmitted through food?	Can my pet or other animals get sick from this virus?						What are the symptoms?	How is it transmitted?	Treatment?	Should I call my doctor?																													How does it spread?	What are the risks of getting it?	Where can I get information specific to my province or territory?		Thank you!  I have found a page that may help.																	Thank you for your help!	You will not receive a reply.  For enquiries, contact us.	Date modified: