	Must one wear a protective mask?	Masks greatly reduce the chance of getting infected and infecting others.	People must wear protective masks in public and at work, at home there is no need.	It is recommended to use a home-made cloth mask or a regular mask, fitted over the nose and mouth.	One should wash hands after touching the mask.	What is the coronavirus?	The coronavirus belongs to a large family of viruses identified as the cause of certain animal diseases and it can cause disease in humans, too.	The name 'coronavirus' refers to their resemblance to a crown )when viewed in an electron microscope.  The severity of human illness depends on the particular virus strand of this family and ranges between mild ailment, such as a cold, up to a serious disease that can negatively affect the lungs and lead to multiple organ failure, such as the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome )and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.	What is the 2019 novel coronavirus?	The novel coronavirus had not been previously identified as a cause of disease in humans.	In December 2019, the coronavirus was identified as the pathogen causing a cluster of pneumonia cases in Wuhan City, Hubei province, central mainland China, and later on, it was found to spread to all provinces of mainland China as well as internationally.	In terms of its genetic makeup, the SARS virus, which was the cause of severe morbidity in 2003/4, is the most similar to the novel coronavirus in China among all other coronaviruses that cause human morbidity.	On February 11 2020, the World Health Organization decided on an official name for the virus -SARS-CoV-2, and the disease it causes -COVID-19.	On March 11 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak was a pandemic.	How is the novel coronavirus transmitted to humans?	The vast majority of the first patients in this event either worked in the livestock and seafood market in Wuhan or visited it.  Hence the hypothesis, that the virus spread from animals to human beings, but thus far, it was impossible to identify with certainty which animal.	Currently, the transmission of the virus is from person to person.  The virus can exit the body from a sick person's respiratory tracts, mainly when sneezing or coughing.  The dispersed droplets can be inhaled by other people or land on surfaces.  People who shortly after that inhale these droplets or touch these surfaces and subsequently touch their mouths, noses, or eyes may become infected.  Any person-to-person physical contact, such as kissing, hugging, having sex and hand shaking, without protection, is potentially infectious.  It has yet to be determined how infectious this disease is, but at this stage, it seems that its level of infection is at least similar to that of the influenza virus.  It is possible to become infected from patients with very mild symptoms.	What are the symptoms of the infection?  And how severe is it?	A significant part of all people infected with coronavirus do not develop symptoms at all.  Among the sick, the symptoms of the disease are similar to those of influenza.  As a matter of fact, it is usually impossible to differentiate between infection with the coronavirus and many other respiratory illnesses without a specific laboratory test.	The most common symptoms of the infection are fever, fatigue, and dry coughing.  One in six patients will develop severe symptoms manifested in labored breathing.  Older adults, people with chronic diseases such as heart condition or diabetes, and people with compromised immune systems tend to develop severe symptoms.  In the most extreme cases, the infection may cause acute pneumonia, severe respiratory syndrome, renal insufficiency, and even death.	The disease's mortality rate is estimated at about 2% of the patients.  However, the variance between places is large.  Note that since many of those infected do not develop any symptoms, it may be assumed that the mortality rate among those infected is lower.	What influence does the virus have on pregnancy, delivery and breastfeeding?	Information is still partial, and knowledge is based on a handful of accounts and on what is known from similar viral disease:	 There is no information yet on harm to fetuses or newborns either in the short term or the long term, as a result of the mother's infection with the virus during her pregnancy.  In other viruses from the Corona family, miscarriages during the mother's pregnancy were described.	 Infants born to mothers who were sick with coronavirus at the time of delivery did not carry the virus, and the virus was not found in the amniotic fluid.	 So far, the coronavirus was not found in breast milk, and therefore it is apparently not transmitted through breastfeeding.  It should be noted that breastfeeding is close contact, which may transmit the virus through exposure to respiratory excretions or contact.How do you test a person for the novel coronavirus?	The infection is diagnosed with a laboratory test of respiratory droplets.  Only people suspected of exposure to the virus, who develop the COVID-19 specific symptoms, are tested.Can I get tested at my own expense?	No, it is not possible to get tested at your own expense.Is a negative test result definitive?	A negative test result indicates that there is no coronavirus presence in the airways as of the sampling date.  At a very early stage of the disease, before the symptoms develop, results can still be negative.  A negative result while suffering from symptoms, indicates that the symptoms were probably not caused by infection with novel coronavirus.Is there a treatment for the disease caused by coronavirus?	Currently, there is no specific treatment for novel coronavirus.  Patients in more severe states are treated with experimental treatments that are not yet fully proven.  The treatment is mostly supportive in character and is given, based on patient's clinical state.  Antibiotics do not help patients fight novel coronavirus.Is there a vaccine for the novel coronavirus?	There is no antiviral vaccine.  Several groups across the world are attempting to develop a vaccine, yet an effective vaccine is not expected any time soon.What can be done in order to avoid being infected by novel coronavirus?It is advised to always maintain the same hygiene rules, which may prevent infection with other respiratory tract viruses:Wash hands with water and soap or with alcohol based sanitizer on a frequent basis.Avoid close contact with people suffering from acute respiratory disease, and people who are sick, coughing or sneezing.Keep a distance of 2 meters from any other person, avoid handshakes and any other physical contact.Avoid direct contact with objects or surfaces in public areas that are likely to be constantly touched by many people.Avoid touching the mouth, nose and eyes.Cough and sneeze into your elbow or a tissue and throw it in the garbage if you sneezed or coughed into your hand -washing your hands immediately after that.Avoid using shared dinnerware at the same meal.Avoid public areas when feeling sick.When and whether is advisable to wear a protective mask?The effectiveness of the mask in preventing infection with the novel coronavirus is limited.  Upon continuous use, the mask becomes worn out and wet.There is no recommendation to wear a mask on a routine basis in order to protect against respiratory diseases, including the one caused by the novel coronavirus.  Individuals should wear one only if a specific recommendation is given by a medical personnel member.People, who are supposed to wear the mask, are those who develop symptoms and are suspected or diagnosed as coronavirus patients ,as well as those, who come in contact or treat susceptible or confirmed patients.Is it feasible to exercise caution with regard to food?According to the currently available information, no coronavirus transmission has been reported by food packages or food itself.However, it is important to always follow hygiene rules, when dealing with food or preparing a meal: frequent washing of hands and surfaces, separating between raw meat and other foods, full cooking and immediate cooling down of the food.Is there a risk in receiving shipments and products shipped from overseas and especially from China?According to the currently available information, coronaviruses do not survive on objects for a long time, and no transmission of the disease has been reported in this manner.What are the restrictions and guidelines to the public in Israel?	Restrictions and guidelines to the public in Israel are constantly updated on Ministry of Health's website under guidelines for the new routine.What are the guidelines in places that receive the public?	Contact must be made by telephone or other online measures rather than arriving in person in order to determine if physical arrival is indeed necessary.	Physical arrival may take place only in vital cases.  The guidelines must be maintained and no more than 10 people are to be allowed to stay in the same space, while keeping a distance of at least 2 meters between people.Follow the guidelines, for: What can be done in order to avoid being infected by the novel coronavirus?	Establishments are requested to make hand sanitizer available to the public and employees alike.  In addition, surfaces must be cleaned often.  The recommendation is to clean and sanitize surface with 70% alcohol or chlorine solution based sanitizers.What about the elderly population and those who come in contact with them?	For the elderly population, and especially those with chronic illnesses or a weak immune system, it is advisable to reduce social contact whenever possible while maintaining an active routine.	For those aged 60 and over, and for people with chronic diseases or suppressed immune system, it is advisable avoid groups in one space, avoid contact with people returning from any destination abroad, and avoid contact with people with symptoms, and those who are suspected of being infected.	People with fever or other respiratory symptoms must avoid contact with the elderly.  Visits to welfare, nursing or healthcare establishments )are to be avoided, except a single visitor, preferably a family member.	Any person with fever or respiratory symptoms is not permitted to provide care for patients or visit establishments for the elderly.	Institutions have been instructed to prevent multiple visitors from entering for the benefit of resident health.I have an appointment for medical examination or treatment, what should I do?	Each individual case should be reviewed.  Contact the clinic or the hospital to find out if you need to arrive or what options you have to arrive.Can a pet put at risk a person with being infected by a coronavirus and vice versa?	As far as known, a pet such as a dog or a cat is incapable of being infected by or infecting a person with novel coronavirus.  However, theoretically, since other types of coronavirus can infect animals, it is advisable to exercise extreme caution and not to handle a pet if you have symptoms, or are susceptible of coronavirus disease.  If you must have contact with animals while experiencing symptoms, wear a protective mask and be mindful to wash hands.Is it possible to move?If it is an urgent move, it is permitted.Follow the Ministry of Health guidance and guidelines, including:If you require professional aid ),it is better to do that without the tenants present.If a person who is in isolation needs to move, and it is not possible to postpone the move until after the isolation, contact the Ministry of Health for an exception and professional directions.How to cope with the new routine with a healthy approach?During these times of personal and national coping with the Novel Coronavirus, it is a matter of great importance to maintain physical and mental health.  It is important to maintain a healthy routine, healthy nutrition, physical exercise and stress relief activities.  It is recommended to look at this situation as opportunity to take care of ourselves, relax and rest, eat healthy, exercise and enrich ourselves with new knowledge.For further reading on the following topics:		What are the recommendations for people traveling abroad?In general, consider all nonessential travel abroad.	If, however, you do decide to travel, be sure to practice strict hygiene during your stay.  Furthermore, it is recommended that you avoid contact with either living or dead animals, stay away from livestock markets, and avoid unnecessary visits in healthcare establishments.In any case, due to the highly dynamic nature of the situation, it is recommended that you keep yourself up-to-date on the reports on the situation in your local region and the guidance by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and local authorities at each destination.Are there restrictions on traveling abroad?It is recommended to consider nonessential private travel abroad.	Until further notice, all healthcare system personnel must not travel abroad.	The Civil Service Commission has issued guidance for state employees to avoid traveling abroad in an official capacity and to reconsider the necessity of traveling in a private capacity.	Avoid travel to international conferences, gatherings and events, including religious events.I returned to Israel from abroad, what should I do?Those returning to Israel from any destination in the world are required to enter home isolation for 14 days from the time of their return to Israel.	Those who have come to Israel in the last 14 days, who are in home isolation and who develop symptoms of fever above 38 degrees, cough, difficulty breathing or other respiratory symptoms, must call 101 MDA Hotline immediately for further medical examination.  Do not go to the hospital or clinic.  In any case, the isolation period should be completed, even if a negative test result has been received.	Those who are in home isolation are required to report this to the Ministry of Health.	Send an online report about home isolation.Who is permitted to enter Israel?Entry into Israel is permitted to any citizen or resident of Israel, but they are obliged to isolate a house upon their arrival from abroad.	All foreign nationals are denied entry to Israel.	In exceptional cases, one may apply for approval of the Foreign Ministry subject to proof of the ability to remain in home isolation for 14 days upon arrival in Israel.What is close contact?  In what situations does contact with a person diagnosed with COVID-19 require home isolation?Being within 2 meters, for at least 15 minutes with the confirmed patient.  If you don't know this person, and the suspicion of contact is based on information about staying in a shared space only, at least 15 minutes of staying in the same space require entry into home isolation.	Working closely with or staying in the same classroom.	Shared travel by any means of transport.	Shared living.	Physical contact such as a kiss, a hug or a handshake, regardless of time spent in the patient environment.	It is important to realize that a person diagnosed with COVID-19 may have been healthy and without symptoms at the time of the encounter, but it was still possible that he or she was already contagious at the time.I found out I had close contact with an individual or a group that was tested positive for the novel coronavirus, what should I do?	The Ministry of Health is investigating each and every case of close contact.  If a person had close contact, this person must be placed under home isolation in line with given guidance and the law requires the person to send an online home isolation report to the Ministry of Health or to call the Ministry of Health Hotline *5400.  If symptoms show, seek medical care in accordance with the Ministry of Health guidance.  If you are not sure whether there was close contact, call the MDA Hotline -dial 101 for advice.  If fever or respiratory symptoms develop, call 101 MDA Emergency Services Hotline, and do not go to an HMO clinic or the emergency ward.	Any person who does not satisfy the definition of close contact with a confirmed patient or group is not required to be placed under home isolation, but must monitor their health )or higher, cough or other respiratory symptoms).  If such symptoms develop, seek medical care in accordance with the Ministry of Health guidance.  If you are not sure whether there was close contact, call 101 MDA Emergency Services Hotline.I had close contact with a healthy person who had had contact with a novel coronavirus patient, and is now under home isolation.  Can I be infected?	The risk of becoming infected with the novel coronavirus as a result of contact with a healthy person who had contact with a confirmed patient is very low.  This eventuality is not defined as exposure to a confirmed patient and so you may resume normal daily activities, and you do not need to be placed under home isolation.I have a fever and a new cough but I have not been in contact with a patient diagnosed in COVID-19 and have not returned from abroad, what should I do?	If fever develops above 38 degrees C and also new respiratory symptoms, stay at home for 48 hours after the fever and symptoms disappear and reduce contact with household members.  Staying at home is not defined as home isolation, but is an important precaution during this period and it is desirable to maintain the isolation rules here as well.	In the event of a need for medical treatment, however, it is advisable to contact a medical officer to consult the need for physical arrival as well as how to act upon arrival.What is home isolation?	Home isolation is aimed at stopping the spread of infection and prevention of coronavirus spread in Israel.  This requires avoiding public places.  According to the order of Ministry of Health's Director General ),the home isolation lasts for 14 days since returning to Israel or the last contact with a confirmed patient.  According to law, home isolation must be reported to the Ministry of Health by filling the online form or calling the Ministry of Health Hotline at *5400.What is the guidance for home isolation?Guidance for the person under isolation:	Stay indoors;	Stay in a separate, well-ventilated room with a closed door.  Exit the room if necessary, for very short periods only, cover your mouth and nose with a face mask.  Several individuals of the same household can be isolated in the same room.  If all household members require isolation, there is no restriction within the home;	Wash hands with soap and water or clean them with an alcohol-based sanitizer before and after food preparation, before eating, and before and after using the toilet.	Soap and water should be used if hands are visibly dirty.  It is preferable to use disposable paper for hand drying;	If available, use a separate bathroom;	Keep mouth and nose covered while sneezing or coughing, cough or sneeze into a disposable tissue or sleeve.  This is to prevent the virus from spreading.  Immediately afterwards, wash hands with soap and water or disinfect them with alcohol-based sanitizer;	If breastfeeding, wash hands before touching the infant, wear a face mask or any other cloth while feeding at the breast.  If expressing breast milk with a breast pump, wash hands before touching any pump or bottle parts, and if possible, consider having someone who is well feed breast milk to the infant.	If fever or respiratory symptoms develop, or any other medical condition, call the 101 MDA Emergency Services Hotline.If there are several people in isolation in the same household, they can stay together in the same room.	If all household members are required to be in home isolation, you can stay in all the rooms of the house.	As much as possible from physical contact should be avoided between the residents.	Do not share items without cleaning in between uses, including dishes and utensils.	Before and after caring for a child, wash hands with soap and water.	it is recommended to use toys that can be cleaned after use.General guidance:	There should be only one person who enters and exits the room of the isolated person or persons, this person should be a healthy person with no other diseases which might further increase their risk;	No home visitors are allowed;	Check that the common areas in the home such as the kitchen and the bathroom are well ventilated;	Avoid entering the room of the isolated person person or persons as much as possible.  Upon entering the isolation space, cover your mouth and nose, preferably with a face mask, cloth is also possible.  Do not touch face mask while wearing it;	Use disposable products such as gloves when exposed to the isolated person and the home isolation space, including dirty surfaces, clothes or beddings;	Avoid direct contact with body fluids, especially oral secretions, airway secretions, urine and feces of the isolated person;	Wash hands with soap and water or disinfect them with appropriate alcohol-based sanitizer after every contact with the isolated person, the person's belongings, or immediate environment, before eating, and after using the toilet.  There is a preference to wash with soap and water over sanitizer if the hands have visible dirt;	Surfaces should be cleaned and disinfected at least once a day, such as handles, light switches, toilets and showers, bedside tables, bed frame and other furniture in the isolated persons' room, with standard household disinfectant.  )If possible, clean with 1000 ml of chlorine solution )until the surfaces /items are dried.  Gloves and a gown or apron should be used during the cleaning processes.	Bed linen and laundry must be changed at least twice a week.  All laundry of the isolated person must be stored separately in the isolation room until the time of washing.  Care should be taken to avoid dirty laundry from coming into contact with other items, including clean laundry.  Washing must be done separately, on a washing program of at least 65 °C with regular laundry soap.	Disposable products such as gloves, tissues, masks and other waste associated with the care of the isolated person must be disposed of in a dedicated bag in the patient's room and sealed tightly before being disposed of in an external garbage can;	Avoid the sharing of common objects that could transmit the virus with the isolated person, such as: toothbrush, cigarettes, dishes and utensils, towels, beddings, etc.	It is best do dishes in a dishwasher with a temperature of at least 65 °C If no dishwasher is available, dishes can be washed in hot water and dish soap and to ensure they fully dry in the drying rack.  The utensils )of the people in isolation will be separate from those of other occupants, or they should use disposable utensils.	All other household members must wash hands frequently.	Are there any restrictions on household members of an isolated person?Provided the home isolation conditions are maintained, household members can continue their normal activities.Who will compensate the isolated person for absence from work?Work absence during the isolation period shall be considered an absence from work due to illness, on condition that proof is submitted to certify the date of arrival to Israel.You can print the general statement of illness )from the Ministry of Health Website.  Do not ask your physician to issue a statement of illness for this absence.I have received a message )that information about me has been passed on for completion of the testing -how can I know it is real?	The message from the Ministry of Health will usually address you by your private name You will be able to verify the message by calling to the number listed in it -from the same device, where the message has been sent.  Automatic system will recognize, whether the number you have called from is included in the list of numbers, to which messages have been sent by the Ministry of Health.I have received a text message that information about me has been passed on for further investigation -why and what does it mean?	Due to increase in number of new patients each day, it is impossible to conduct an in person epidemiological investigation for each case.  An epidemiological investigation is a process of identifying those people, places and times where exposure to the patient may have occurred prior to the diagnosis, and who may have been infected by them.  Those who have been exposed are asked to enter isolation as soon as possible.  Quick entry into isolation helps to protect public health, and especially people that are close to you.	In order to carry out epidemiological investigations in large numbers, we are aided by sophisticated technological means.  Therefore, after diagnosis, details about the patient are passed on for investigation by technological means, and the patient is informed by text messages.	)During the process, places will be identified where the patient visited in the past 14 days.  Contents of conversations are not accessed.  The information is used only by the Ministry of Health -and solely for finding those who were exposed to the patient and to discover the source of the infection.  When we find out who was exposed to the patient -we will send them a text message )that will inform them that they must enter isolation immediately.	In due course, if needed, we may ask that you turn over your mobile phone for physical examination.  In this case, Ministry of Health representative will contact you directly.I have received a message )that I have to enter isolation -how can I know it is real?	The message from the Ministry of Health will usually address you by your private name.	The message will always include exposure date, which is no older than the former 14 days, and usually will include time range of your exposure to the patient as well.  It will allow aiding you to recall, where you have been in the time of your exposure to the patient.	You will be able to verify the message by calling to the number listed in it -from the same device, where the message has been sent.  Automatic system will recognize, whether the number you have called from is included in the list of numbers, to which messages have been sent by the Ministry of Health.I have received a text message )that I must enter isolation -why and what does it mean?	Due to increase in number of new patients each day, epidemiological investigation is carried out by sophisticated technological means.  If you have received this message, it indicates that you have been close enough to a person with a confirmed diagnosis for coronavirus, during the 14 days prior to their diagnosis, and you may have been exposed to the virus and may have been infected.	As far as we know, you are still free of the disease, but during this period, if you have been infected, the virus may be passed on from you to others, to your relatives and others in the public.  Therefore, you must enter home isolation, according to guidelines of the Ministry of Health as soon as possible, in order to expose as few people as possible.  Quick entry to isolation and adhering to isolation directions helps to protect public health, and especially the health of those closest to you.  The Ministry of Health guidelines for home isolation are located on Ministry's dedicated coronavirus website.	During the technological investigation that is being carried out, contents of conversations will not be accessed.  According to regulations, information that has been gathered will be used only by the Ministry of Health -and solely for warning the public and those that may have been exposed.  When no longer needed, the information will be erased.How can I easily detect fake messages?	)True message is sent by the Ministry of Health.  If the message says, it is from GSS -it's fake.	A true message will not threaten you or demand that pay a fine or any other sort of threatening.	A message that arrived by means of other messaging software, such as WhatsApp or Messenger -is fake.	I have installed "HAMAGEN" application.  Can I still get a message from the Ministry of Health?	Yes.  "HAMAGEN" application does not replace sending of messages.	I saw in the publications that I was adjacent to a coronavirus patient but received no message.  Do I have to enter into isolation?	Yes.  You must enter isolation.  All technology has limitations, and testing methods complement each other.  Technological measures are unable to detect all those people, who were exposed to a patient.  Therefore, you have to continue with being updated with locations of patients, published by the Ministry on the website, and act in accordance with this information.  It is advisable to download "HAMAGEN" application of the Ministry of Health as well, that is automatically scanning locations, published by the Ministry against your locations.	I have received a message )that I have to enter isolation, but I am a medical personnel member, and on date specified by the message I was protected.  What should I do?	Refer your superiors and make a decision on the need for isolation.		Is tap water safe for use?	Yes.  The Ministry of Health encourages the public to continue drinking tap water as normal.  According to the World Health Organization, coronavirus has not been discovered in drinking water sources and supply systems.  Drinking water sources are being regularly treated for bacteria and viruses, and water arrives treated at your tap.	Is it necessary to boil tap water?	No, boiling tap water is unnecessary.  According to reports from around the world, coronavirus is not found in drinking water sources and supply systems.  Drinking water sources are being regularly treated for bacteria and viruses, and water arrives treated at your tap.	Should I purchase or keep stock of bottled water?	No.  The Ministry of Health recommends continuing using tap water as normal.  The declaration of a state of emergency in the economy will not affect the supply of safe drinking water to the general public.  Routine inspections of drinking water sources and supply systems continue.		Is it possible to become sick with coronavirus through contact with drain water or sewage?	According to the World Health Organization, there is no evidence that the sewage system serves as a conduit for coronavirus infection.  Additionally, in most facilities for the treatment of sewage water, water is disinfected from bacteria and viruses.	Are those working with sewage or treated wastewater at a higher risk of becoming sick with coronavirus?	So far, there is no evidence that sewage serves as a conduit for coronavirus infection.  It seems that the risk of coronavirus infection as a result of contact with sewage and treated wastewater is low.  Treated wastewater may contain other disease carrying bacteria and viruses.  Infection from bacteria and viruses with higher environmental survivability than coronavirus usually occurs by ingestion coronavirus main vector for infection from person to person is by droplet infection --droplets originating in the respiratory excretions )of an infected individual that enter the respiratory systems of uninfected individuals, or through physical contact with an infected person.	)Are special precautions against coronavirus necessary for agriculture workers and wastewater workers?	The precautions that exist in normal circumstances also apply during this time farmers who use wastewater should, in general, regardless of the coronavirus crisis, take sanitary precautions, including washing and sanitizing their hands with water and soap and with sanitizer upon contact with wastewater, especially before contact with food, and to change their work clothes upon completing their work.	Are special precautions against coronavirus necessary for those working with sewage?	The precautions that exist in normal circumstances also apply during this time.  People working with sewage should, regardless of the coronavirus crisis, work according to the Ministry of Labor's guidance.  They should also maintain sanitary precautions, including washing and sanitizing their hands with water and soap and with sanitizer upon contact with wastewater, especially before contact with food, and to change their work clothes upon completing their work.		Why did the Ministry of Health issue a ban on bathing in swimming pools?	This ban was in line with the general guidance to ban gatherings and to limit contact between people.	Is it possible to resume normal activities in swimming pools in condominiums and residential complexes?	The guidance applies to all swimming pools, in order to protect public health as much as possible and to prevent infection.	Is it possible to engage in therapeutic activities in swimming pools?	All swimming pool activities are banned, including therapeutic activities.	Why was it decided not to open the bathing season in the beaches, as well as to close the open beaches?	Due to high crowd density and difficulty enforcing the guidance of people to keep a distance of 2 meters from person to person.  According to the Decree issued by the Ministry of Health, gatherings of over 10 people are forbidden.		Is the food supply in Israel intact?	Food production and importation, and raw materials importation for the food industry have been working as usual.  The National Food Service monitors food production and importation to secure food safety.	What are the guidelines for gathering at food sale establishments?	The establishment owner will maintain a distance of 2 meters between people and do all in his power to prevent the crowding of people in a single spot.  For this purpose, he shall regulate the entry of visitors.	Is it permissible to eat in restaurants, cafes, and kiosks?	Eating and drinking in such businesses is forbidden.  It is possible to order food to be delivered.		Is there a risk for coronavirus infection from contact with surfaces only?	Most coronavirus infection cases result from direct contact between individuals and from exposure to respiratory excretions.  The virus is excreted from a sick person's respiratory tracts, mostly when sneezing or coughing.  The droplets can be inhaled by other people or land on surfaces.	People who will touch these surfaces shortly afterwards and subsequently touch their mouth, nose, or eyes may become infected.  Therefore, it is recommended that you wash with water and soap or hand sanitizer.	Which surfaces should be cleaned and sanitized?	Mostly surfaces indoors and in the public sphere that come in contact with hands such as railings, handles, faucets, keyboards, desks, and so forth.	I want to sanitize surfaces at home or in the public sphere.  What are the recommendations for an effective sanitization?	Sanitization is to be done only by wiping the surfaces, and after they were cleaned with water and soap.	Sanitization is to be done by an alcohol-based sanitizer at a concentrate of at a concentration of at least 70%, or by a chlorine solution )until the surfaces are dry.	How can I make chlorine solution at a concentrate of sodium hypochlorite 0.1%?	)Water down 40 ml of bleach solution with 1 liter of water.	Another possibility is to water down a cup of bleach solution with 5 liters of water.	Is it necessary to mass spray with disinfectants on a surface that requires sanitization?	It is neither necessary nor recommended to perform sanitization by mass spraying or fogging.		What is the situation in Israel and how is the Ministry of Health prepared for the novel coronavirus?	The Ministry of Health's policy at this time is one of preventing local infection, meaning the isolation of infected and suspected persons and the restriction of gatherings.  At the same time, The Ministry continues a policy of "prevention", i.e reducing the risk of more patients arriving in Israel.  Accordingly, the Ministry of Health recommended measures to restrict entry to Israel for non-residents of Israel.  In addition, the Ministry of Health has ordered home isolation for anyone who enters Israel from anywhere abroad, for 14 days.	The Ministry of Health follows the situation since it started and keeps in touch with the World Health Organization and other Health Ministries across the world.  It issues guidelines to the Healthcare System and the general public on how to prepare for the possible spread of the virus to Israel.  The healthcare system can identify potential infections, isolate them, diagnose them, and treat them.				For medical questions about the disease or possible exposure, call Magen David Adom Emergency Services Hotline -dial 101.	For questions about home isolation and general questions about the novel coronavirus, call the Ministry of Health Hotline or HMO Hotlines.						