Is COVID-19 airborne?

COVID-19 is transmitted through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. The virus is transmitted by these droplets that are inhaled into the lungs of people who are nearby or from people touching surfaces with the virus on it and then touching their eyes, nose, and mouth.

In addition, the virus may possibly spread in enclosed treatment areas where respirators and other respiratory medical devices and equipment are used.

The World Health Organization provides the following explanation about airborne transmission.

 
Does the new coronavirus spread through aerosols?

When people sneeze or cough, they may spray big droplets but the droplets do not stay suspended in the air for long. They fall. Health care procedures like intubation can spray small droplets into the air. Bigger droplets fall quickly. Smaller ones fall less quickly. We know about environmental contamination for MERS-CoV and finding RNA in air filtration systems (but not the live virus). However, for the new coronavirus, we still need to see the data and understand how transmission has been assessed.

What are the symptoms of COVID-19?
The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, tiredness, and dry cough. Some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhea. These symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. Some people become infected but don’t develop any symptoms and don't feel unwell. Most people (about 80%) recover from the disease without needing special treatment. Around 1 out of every 6 people who gets COVID-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure, heart problems or diabetes, are more likely to develop serious illness. People with fever, cough and difficulty breathing should seek medical attention.	Can COVID-19 be caught from a person who has no symptoms?
The main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. The risk of catching COVID-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. However, many people with COVID-19 experience only mild symptoms. This is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. It is therefore possible to catch COVID-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill.
WHO is assessing ongoing research on the period of transmission of COVID-19 and will continue to share updated findings.  

What is the criteria for classifying someone as a “contact” (a person who has been in contact with a confirmed case)?
The criteria is determined based on an exposure assessment conducted by the Epidemiological Investigation Team.
The scope of exposure starts on the day before the confirmed patient started showing symptoms, taking into account the symptoms of the confirmed patient, whether the confirmed patient was wearing a mask, and risk level of exposure (location of contact, duration of contact, etc.). What happens if you are classified as a contact?
 You should isolate yourself for 14 days from your last potential exposure.
 You will receive a Self-quarantine Notice from the Head of the Health Service, be informed of the self-quarantine guidelines, and be assigned a clerk who will check in with you twice a day until you are released from self-quarantine to check for fevers and symptoms.


What are the self-quarantine guidelines?
Separate yourself from other people and frequently ventilate the room by closing the door and opening the windows. If possible, stay in a place where you can have a separate bathroom and basin to yourself.
If you use a public bathroom or basin, make sure you have disinfected the area with bleach or other household disinfectants before other people use them.
Use your own personal items, including towels, dishware, and mobile phone. Wash your clothes and bedding separately. Eat alone and make sure to separate your dishware from everyone else’s and clean them thoroughly before anyone else uses them.

What if I don’t have a room where I can separate myself from other people?
If you are unable to find a separate living area within your residence or require additional assistance, you may stay at a suitable self-quarantine facility or an isolation room at a hospital within your local community.Are living expenses provided for during the self-quarantine period?
Yes, your expenses will be covered during the self-quarantine period and you will be on paid leave.
For details, contact your Community Service Center.
Foreigners may apply for assistance at the Community Service Center of their registered address.
If you do not have a registered address, submit an application at the Community Service Center of the area you are quarantined in.
 

Is violating a self-quarantine order punishable by law?

Failure to cooperate with quarantine orders may result in a criminal penalty (maximum KRW 3 million fine).
Upon promulgation of the Infectious Disease Control and Prevention Act (passed by the National Assembly on February 26, 2020), violations may be penalized by a maximum one year prison sentence or maximum KRW 10 million fineI am an asymptomatic foreigner under self-quarantine and would like to return to my home country. Would I be permitted to leave?
Share inA
○ Once you receive a Self-quarantine Notice from the Health Service, you are prohibited from public activities or leaving the country during the isolation period, regardless of whether or not you are showing symptoms.



I would like know where a particular confirmed patient went before being quarantined.
South Korea raised the alert level for COVID-19 to “serious” on February 23, 2020 after COVID-19 spread to local communities. This means that the focus has shifted from contact tracing confirmed cases to early-detection and treatment.
As such, the government has replaced location tracing information with latest updates about patients in each local community. The local governments are sending out text messages with updated and detailed information about where patients have been.

Information on the whereabouts of a confirmed patient, beginning the day before symptoms appeared will be released if there are spatial and time-based risks of transmission. Personal information is not released and persons who may have been exposed to the patient are contacted individually so that preventative measures may be taken.Who is eligible to get tested?
 In accordance with KCDC guidelines, patients classified as suspected cases and Patients Under Investigation (PUI) may get testing.
 There is no need to get tested out of simple anxiety. We ask that you trust the expert advice of your physicians. What is the difference between a suspected case and a Patient Under Investigation?

Suspect cases are people with high risk of having been infected after coming into contact with a confirmed case. Although the risk level is not as high as Patients Under Investigation, people are classified as suspected cases based on their travel history and physician’s opinion.

Patients Under Investigation must report their symptoms. Even though an epidemiological survey will not be conducted and a Self-quarantine Notice will not be issued, Patients Under Investigation must follow the same measures as confirmed patients.



Where can I get tested?
You can get tested at COVID-19 screening centers that are equipped to collect samples.
The following link provides a list of COVID-19 screening centers (in Korean) where you can get tested.
For further inquiries, please contact the KCDC call center.
 


How is the test performed?

(Sample collection) Samples are collected by physicians, nurses, and medical technicians at designated locations (COVID-19 screening centers). Nurses and medical technicians will collect samples under the guidance of physicians. Two types of samples are collected, during which you may experience discomfort/pain.

(Lower respiratory tract) sputum: sample is collected by spitting sputum into a container, making sure that it is not contaminated by other liquids.
Forcefully coughing up sputum is strictly prohibited as it may produce aerosol.

(Upper respiratory tract) combination of a nasal (nasopharyngeal) and throat (oropharyngeal) swab (in one tube): 

(nasal swab) insert a cotton swab into the nostril until it reaches the posterior nares.
(throat swab) insert a cotton swab and scrape the insides of the throat.

(DNA testing) screening centers that are not equipped to do their own testing will send tests to reference laboratories.How long does it take to get DNA test results back?
DNA testing itself takes about six hours. However, the sample will need to be transferred and there may be delays. You can expect to get your results back in one to two days after testing.



How much does it cost to get tested?

DNA testing itself takes about six hours. However, the sample will need to be transferred and○ You will not be charged for diagnosis and testing (PCR sample tests) if you are classified as a suspect case or Patient Under Investigation*. However, you will still be charged for general check-ups, X-rays, and other tests and treatment.
The case definitions under the Coronavirus-19 Response Guideline used at that point in time will serve as the classification criteria for Patients Under Investigations (PUI)

The same shall apply to both Koreans and foreigners.
There may be delays. You can expect to get your results back in one to two days after testing.



Can I get tested if I have travelled to China but am not showing any symptoms?
You do not need to get tested if you are not showing symptoms. If you do begin to experience symptoms within 14 days of travelling to China, contact the KCDC call center  and get directions to a COVID-19 screening center.	I don’t have sputum, should I just get testing on my upper respiratory tract?
Samples of both the upper and lower respiratory tracts are collected for patients who have a cough or sputum. If you do not have sputum, only a sample of the upper respiratory tract will be collected as forcefully coughing up sputum is strictly prohibited.Is there a vaccine for COVID-19?
 Not yet. To date, there is no vaccine for COVID-19.



If there is no conclusive treatment for COVID-19, how are patients being treated?
The treatment for COVID-19 is symptomatic treatment (treating the symptoms of a disease).
The absence of a treatment for COVID-19 means that we do not yet have a targeted therapy designed for the COVID-19 virus or to treat sick cells. It does not mean that the virus is untreatable.



Does the state cover treatment expenses for patients confirmed of having COVID-19?

In accordance with the Infectious Disease Control and Prevention Act, treatment is covered by the local or central government. However, expenses incurred for treatment unrelated to COVID-19 may not be covered.
The same shall apply to both Koreans and foreigners.How does COVID-19 affect pregnancies?

To date, there is no conclusive data about whether COVID-19 has impacts on a pregnancy. There have been very few reported cases of terminated pregnancies due to miscarriages or stillbirths related to other coronaviruses (SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV). However, high fevers during the first to third trimester of a pregnancy are known to increase the risk of certain congenital defects.


 Can a pregnant woman confirmed of having COVID-19 transmit the virus to the fetus?

It seems that COVID-19 is transmitted largely by droplets or physical contact with people who have the virus. It is yet to be seen whether an expecting mother with COVID-19 can transmit the disease to the fetus or what other infection pathways exist prior to and after birth. According to reports to date, cases of pregnant woman transmitting COVID-19 to the fetus within the womb are extremely rate.



Are newborns born to mothers with COVID-19 more susceptible to the virus compared to newborns born to healthy mothers?

Although the number of cases are limited, there have been reports of premature births in pregnant women with COVID-19. There is no evidence that supports a direct correlation between COVID-19 infections and premature births, nor data to support that newborns born to mothers with COVID-19 are at particularly high risk. However, given the side effects of influenza and other respiratory virus infections (low birthweight, premature birth, etc.), the risks of COVID-19 to newborns should not be taken lightly.



 Can the effects of COVID-19 in a pregnant woman or newborn last beyond infancy to impact long-term health and development?

To date, we do not have long-term data about a newborn who has been exposed to COVID-19 in the mother’s womb or diagnosed with COVID-19. In general, premature births and low birthweight are known to have negative impacts on children’s health.



 Can an infant contract COVID-19 from breastfeeding?

○ According to some studies to date, there have not been any cases of mothers with COVID-19 passing the virus to infants through breastfeeding. As of now, there is no information about the transmission of COVID-19 through breastfeeding.


Can a mother with COVID-19 stay with her newborn?

A mother with COVID-19 should avoid contact with her infant. If, however, contact is unavoidable, the mother and infant should be separated by a curtain or a distance of at least 2 meters.


If a mother suspected of having the virus and is unable to breastfeed her baby, can the breast milk be stored in a freezer?

If the test results are yet unknown or the mother is quarantined after coming into close contact with a confirmed case, the breast milk may be pumped and stored. If the test results come back negative and the mother is released from quarantine, the breast milk that has been stored may be fed to the infant. However, if the breast milk is to be stored for four days or more, it should be stored at a temperature of -18℃ or lower.


 What types of symptoms will a child show if they catch the virus and what signs should parents look out for?

If the test results are yet unknown or the mother is quarantined after coming into close contact with a confirmed case, the breast milk may be pumped and stored. If the test results come back negative and the mother is released from quarantine, the breast milk that has been stored may be fed to the infant. However, if the breast milk is to be stored COVID-19 is an acute respiratory disease that may be symptomless and mild or cause severe health issues such as respiratory failure. However, based on the cases reported thus far, infants with COVID-19 experience relatively mild symptoms. However, younger children and infants that are born premature or suffer from chronic respiratory disease, congenital heart disease, congenital immunodeficiency disease, or cancer are at higher risk of developing severe or critical symptoms.
Parents of children who have been tested for COVID-19 or are under self-quarantine should immediately contact the health authorities, get a doctor’s opinion and appropriate treatment if their children have shortness of breath, difficulty nursing, weak appetite, fever, or if their lips start turning blue.


Should an infant with COVID-19 also wear a mask?
The virus is mainly transmitted through respiratory droplets produced when an infected person coughs or sneezes. The virus is transmitted by these droplets that are inhaled into the lungs of people who are nearby or from people touching surfaces with the virus on it and then touching their eyes, nose, and mouth. Therefore, masks should be worn in order to prevent spreading the virus to others. However, given the difficulty of keeping masks properly on infants for extended periods of time, parents and guardians should make sure to keep their child’s hands clean and use appropriate personal protection equipment.


What types of personal protection equipment should parents and guardians use when taking care of infants with COVID-19 who are quarantined at Public Relief Hospitals?

If the parents or guardians are under quarantine while looking after their infant with COVID-19, no protection equipment is required. However, if the parents or guardians have not contracted the virus, they should wear protective equipment as they run the risk of getting the virus from the infant. Parents and guardians taking care of the infant firsthand and is in contact with the infant should wear hygiene masks and gloves. They are also required to wear waterproof, long-sleeved gowns as they will be cleaning up diapers and be exposed to bodily fluids.


 What types of treatment are given to infants if both the parents (guardians taking care of the infant) have COVID-19?

Because infants are in close contact with their parents, infants should be tested for the virus. If the infant tests negative for the virus, he/she should be isolated from the parents and symptoms should be monitored for 14 days from the last exposure. If the infant develops symptoms, the health authorities should be contacted immediately and a physician check-up is required.



 If an infant or the mother is confirmed of having COVID-19, what is the recommendation for breastfeeding?

The mother can breastfeed the infant who has the virus. If the mother also tests positive for COVID-19, direct breastfeeding is allowed. However, if the mother has not contracted the virus, she should nurse her baby wearing personal protective equipment. When the mother nurses the infant herself, pumping and bottle feeding is recommended as it is difficult to wear long-sleeved gowns and other protective equipment.
If the infant has not contracted the virus, but the mother tests positive, it is recommended that breastfeeding be postponed as it is not yet known whether COVID-19 can be transmitted by breastfeeding. The mother should wash her hands thoroughly before nursing.
 


 How should an infant with the virus be nursed/fed?

Commercial liquid formula sold in bottles or disposable bottles should be used and disposed of. If non-disposable bottles are used, they should be washed thoroughly with warm water separately from other dishware.
Commercial baby food or homemade baby food stored in containers in single servings, and the leftovers should be disposed of. The dishware used by the infant should be kept and washed separately with detergent and warm water, and other people should refrain from using them. Leftover formula or baby food should be disposed of as medical waste.
 


 What should be done with diapers for an infant with COVID-19 under self-quarantine or isolated at Public Relief Hospitals?

The COVID-19 virus is known to be discharged through excrement and urine. However, it is now yet known whether the virus can be transmitted to other people through excrement and urine. Parents and guardians should wear personal protective equipment and keep their hands clean when changing diapers.

Dirty diapers are categorized as medical waste. The medical waste bags provided by the health authorities should be sanitized first before placing the dirty diapers in them and sanitized once again before sealing. They should then be placed in a dedicated container (made of plastic). The container should be sanitized before placing the lid on and should be sealed and stored so that they may be collected.
 

 What should be done with toys while an infant with the virus is quarantined?

The virus may remain on the surface of toys for a few hours. Toys should be used to a minimum while an infant is under quarantined and should be used by the infant alone. Toys that have been played with should be disposed of following similar guidelines as medical waste or should be cleaned and sanitized with alcohol, sodium hypochlorite (bleach, 500 ppm recommended), or other sanitizers and checked for any bleach residue before allowing the infant to play with them after the quarantine is lifted.



 Can you reuse clothes and beddings used by infants with COVID-19?

Unlike adult clothes and bedding, infant clothes and bedding (bed sheets, pillow cases, covers, blankets, etc.) need to be washed and replaced frequently because of nasal and oral discharge, and puke. Washable materials may be reused after washing with detergent and sanitizers. Fabrics that are washable in hot water should be washed with detergent and sanitizers at 70℃ for at least 25 minutes. Mattresses, carpets, and other items that are difficult to wash should be sanitized or steam washed (high-temperature cleaning) by professional sanitizing service providers. Depending on the number of items used by the infant, items should either be cleaned or disposed of following similar measures used for medical waste.
 

 How do you bathe an infant with COVID-19?

If the guardian has not been infected by the virus, personal protective equipment* should be worn when bathing the infant. The space used for bathing the infant should be cleaned using sanitizers such as alcohol or sodium hypochlorite (bleach, 1,000 ppm recommended). The bleach should be rinsed thoroughly to remove all residue.
Personal protective equipment: hygiene masks, gloves, and waterproof, long-sleeved gowns

How to Use Sodium Hypochlorite (bleach)

Dilution ratio: based on (1,000 ppm) (5% bleach diluted at 1:50).
Dilution method (for 1mL diluted solutions): 1,000mL of water, 20mL of 5% bleach.
Duration of application: 10 minutes for surfaces without gaps/holes, 30 minutes when soaking items.



 Are pregnant women at higher risk of contracting the virus, critical symptoms, morbidity or mortality?

We do not have scientific information about pregnant women’s susceptibility to COVID-19. In general, immunologically and physiologically speaking, pregnant women are more vulnerable to viral respiratory diseases, including COVID-19.
Pregnant women are at higher risk of critical symptoms, morbidity and mortality compared to the general population when infected by not only influenza and other viral respiratory disease, but also coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV.		What is quarantine inspection procedures are required as of now when entering the country?
 As of now, people entering from greater China (including Hong Kong and Macau), Iran, Italy are subject to quarantine inspection and all passengers entering from another country are required to get a temperature check and fill out a Travel Record Declaration and Health Declaration Form as per special immigration procedures.

 Passengers subject to special immigration procedures must verify their address and contact information within Korea before they are allowed to enter and are required to install the Mobile Self-diagnosis App to keep track of fevers and other symptoms of possible infection while staying in the country. All entrants must enter their symptomatic status once a day for fourteen days starting on the day after installing the app and entering the country.



What measures are being taken against passengers arriving from Europe?

Passengers arriving from Europe are subject to thorough special immigration procedures and diagnostic tests. If fevers or respiratory symptoms are discovered during the inspection process and merit epidemiological correlations, a diagnostic test is performed at the quarantine facility within the Quarantine Inspection Center and passengers are put under temporary quarantine observation until the test results come back. Asymptomatic Korean citizens should self-quarantine themselves for 14 days if a quarantine notice is issued during the inspection process and should visit a healthcare center in their jurisdiction within three days to get their samples collected and tested.

 

Patients who test positive for COVID-19 are transferred to a quarantine ward or the Living Treatment Center, while patients who test negative for COVID-19 must place themselves under self-quarantine for 14 days upon entering the country. Asymptomatic foreigners should wait within the temporary living facilities to get diagnostic tests, upon which patients who test positive for COVID-19 are transferred to a quarantine ward or the Living Treatment Center. Patients who test negative for COVID-19 and are short-term visitors will be put under active inspection by local government authorities, while long-term visitors should place themselves under self-quarantine for 14 days upon entering the country.



What quarantine inspection procedures apply to passengers entering the country from China?

Currently all passengers arriving from China (including Hong Kong and Macau) are subject to quarantine inspection and all foreign and domestic passengers are required to get checked under a heat-sensing camera, fill out Travel Record Declarations and Health Declaration Forms, and provide a verifiable address and contact number within Korea during their stay before they are allowed to enter.

 Passengers who have travelled to Hubei province within the past 14 days are prohibited from entering the country and Korean citizens arriving from Hubei province are placed under self-quarantine for 14 days after their domestic address and contact information is verified.Is it safe to travel to locations with confirmed COVID-19 cases?
The World Health Organization has declared COVID-19 a pandemic on March 11, following its global outbreak and spread.
 A total of 125,226 cases (4,877 deceased) in 110 countries with confirmed COVID-19 cases: according to WHO on March 13. 
It is advised to refrain from travelling to locations with confirmed COVID-19 cases if avoidable.

What preventative measures should be followed at multi-purposed facilities?
Share inA
○  Responsibility should be allocated for the prevention and control of COVID-19 by designating a person to be in charge of infections within multi-purposed facilities. Furthermore, staff and environmental control measures along with emergency response systems should be maintained. Employees and consumers who have travelled to locations/regions with confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the past two weeks should be kept from coming to work or accessing the facilities.

○  Furthermore, employees should be educated and reminded about COVID-19, washing their hands, and etiquette when coughing in an effort to prevent the virus from spreading.

 - Leaflets and posters illustrating preventative measures such as washing hands and etiquette when coughing should be posted throughout the facility as a reminder to visitors and consumers.
* Multi-purpose facilities: libraries, art museums, theaters, stadiums, public transportation including buses, trains, subways, and taxis, and shopping malls (supermarkets, marketplaces, duty free shops, department stores, etc.), movie theaters, large restaurants, public baths, etc.



What measures are taken at multi-purpose facilities exposed to COVID-19?

 By principle, the superintendent or operator of public facilities and multi-purpose facilities exposed to patients with COVID-19 should disinfect the premise in accordance with the Guidelines on Disinfecting Public Facilities and Multi-purpose Facilities (edition 2-1) released by the government.

 Superintendents should identify where the COVID-19 patient has been inside the facility to determine the scope of disinfection, and map out and implement a plan accordingly. Although the virus dies out after disinfection, the nature of the disinfectants used and how the disinfected areas are used should be taken into consideration to plan for additional disinfection measures.

 For example, when sodium hypochlorite is used the liquid is highly diluted. Therefore, it is advised that additional disinfection is carried out after fully ventilating the area for roughly 24 hours after the first round.How do you disinfect the house when a family member contracts the COVID-19 virus?Put on a hygiene mask and gloves before beginning disinfection and refrain from touching your face and eyes during the cleaning and disinfection process.

Prepare disinfectants. Products approved by the Ministry of Environment, sodium hypochlorite (household bleach), 70% alcohol .

Keep windows open to ventilate the area.

Repeatedly disinfect the floor of the area that needs disinfection, applying the disinfectant from one end to the other.

Soak a cloth (towel) in the disinfectant and clean all surfaces that are frequently used and surfaces in bathrooms.

Door knob, arm rest, desk, chair, keyboard, mouse, switch, blinds, windows, walls, etc.

Bedding, pillow covers, blankets, etc. should be washed in the washing machine or with detergent.

Mattresses, pillows, carpets, cushions used by a person suspected of contracting COVID-19 should not be used until the test results come back.

Items should be disposed of or disinfected if tested positive. Items are safe to use as is if tested negative.

All cloths (towels) used to disinfect and waste produced during disinfection should be placed in a separate trash bag.

Take off your gloves and wash hands with soap and water.

Take off your hygiene mask and wash hands with soap and water.

Place gloves and masks in a separate trash bag.

All waste produced during the disinfection process should be treated/disposed of separately.

Shower and change clothes immediately after cleaning.

Ventilate the disinfected area.	
Can I catch COVID-19 from my dogs, cats, or other pets?
There is still a lot that we do not know about the transmission path of COVID-19.
To date, there have been no reported instances of transmission from pets.

What types of masks should I use?
The Korean Medical Association and Ministry of Food and Drug Safety have compiled the following requirements and guidelines for masks, based on WHO recommendations.Make sure to wash your hands with soap and water, or alcohol-based hand sanitizers before putting your masks on.

Make sure that your mouth and nose are completely covered by the mask, and double check to see if the mask is fully attached to your face.

Refrain from touching the mask while wearing it. If you do touch your mask, wash your hands with soap and water, or alcohol-based hand sanitizers.	