	The COVID-19 hotline is a service operated by the healthcare professionals at the KY Poison Control Center who can provide advice and answer questions.  Please be patient as we are handling a high volume of calls and want to give everyone the time they deserve.  For general information, please review the website prior to calling the hotline.  Guidance is being added as it becomes available.The Kentucky Department for Public Health (KDPH) is responding actively to the COVID-19 situation.  Our State Health Operations Center is operating at Level 1, its highest activation level.  This respiratory disease was first detected in a Kentucky resident on March 6, 2020.

The following non-pharmaceutical intervention strategies are recommended to prevent the
transmission of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Currently, there is no vaccine available to
prevent coronavirus disease and CDC states that wearing a facemask will not protect the public
from COVID-19. “The best way to prevent illness is to avoid exposure.”

Avoid close contact with people who are sick with fever, coughing, sneezing, and difficulty
breathing. To avoid close contact, stay at least 6 feet away from others.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.
Stay home when you are sick.
Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. To avoid
coughing into your hands, you can cough into your elbow.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household
cleaning spray or wipe.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for “at least 20 seconds”, especially after
going to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.
If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at
least 60% alcohol. Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.

The following community prevention measures are recommended to prevent the transmission of
COVID-19:
Practice social distancing (6 feet away).
Cancel places of worship and large gatherings temporarily due to close proximity.
Urge businesses to allow employees to tele-commute and to provide paid sick leave.
Spread out during meetings by increasing the distance between seats and other similar
actions.
Implement environmental surface cleaning measures in homes, businesses, and other
locations, including frequently touched surfaces and objects, i.e., tables, doorknobs, toys,
desks, and computer keyboards. Use regular household cleaning spray or wipes as
recommended by CDC.

Adults over 60 and people who have severe chronic medical conditions like heart, lung or kidney
disease seem to be at higher risk for more serious COVID-19 illness. If you are at increased risk
for COVID-19, it is especially important for you to take the following actions to reduce your risk of
exposure:
Stay at home as much as possible.
Make sure you have access to several weeks of medications and supplies in case you
need to stay home for prolonged periods of time.
When you go out in public, keep away from others who are sick, limit close contact (6 feet
away) and wash your hands often.
Avoid crowds.

There is currently no vaccine to prevent coronavirus disease. The best way to prevent illness is to avoid exposure.
Avoid close contact with people who are sick (fever, cough, sneeze, and difficulty
breathing). To avoid close contact, stay at least 6 feet away from others.
Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth.
Stay home when you are sick.
Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. To avoid
coughing into your hands, you can cough into your elbow.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household
cleaning spray or wipe.
Wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, especially after going
to the bathroom; before eating; and after blowing your nose, coughing, or sneezing.
If soap and water are not readily available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at
least 60% alcohol. Always wash hands with soap and water if hands are visibly dirty.
CDC states that wearing a facemask will not protect the general public from COVID-19.
The Office of Inspector General will be placing special emphasis on infection control policies and procedures when inspecting healthcare facilities.To protect these populations, nursing homes and prisons are advised to close to visitors.
Schools are advised to close to in-person instruction for an initial 2-week period beginning
March 16, 2020. If a school has spring break following this, stay closed for the third week.
In general, wherever possible, avoid all densely attended public gatherings. 

If it is determined that you need to be quarantined at home, you will be monitored by staff from
Public Health. You should follow the prevention steps below until Public Health says you can return
to your normal activities.
Stay home except to get medical care. You should restrict activities outside your home except
for getting medical care. Do not go to work, school, or public areas and do not use public
transportation or taxis.
Separate yourself from other people in your home. As much as possible, you should stay in a
different room from other people in your home. You should use a separate bathroom, if
available.
Call ahead before visiting your doctor. Before any medical appointment, call the healthcare provider
and tell them that you are being monitored for COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s
office take steps to keep other people from potentially being exposed.
Cover your coughs and sneezes. Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when you cough or
sneeze or you can cough or sneeze into your sleeve. Throw used tissues in a lined trashcan and
immediately wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
Wash your hands. Wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap and water for at least 20
seconds. You can use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are not available. Avoid
touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
Avoid sharing household items. You should not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils,
towels, bedding, or other items with other people in your home. After using these items, you should
wash them thoroughly with soap and water.
Monitor your symptoms. Notify your healthcare provider and your local health department if you
develop symptoms (e.g., fever, respiratory symptoms, difficulty breathing). 

If you live with or provide care at home for a person being monitored for COVID-19 you should:

Make sure that you understand and can help the person follow the healthcare provider’s
instructions for medication and care. You should help the person with basic needs in the
home and provide support for getting groceries, prescriptions, and other personal needs.

Only allow people in the home who are essential for providing care for the person.

Other household members should stay in another home or place of residence. If this is
not possible, they should stay in another room or be separated from the person as much
as possible. Use a separate bathroom, if available.

Restrict visitors who do not have an essential need to be in the home.
Keep people over 60 years of age and those who have compromised immune systems or
chronic health conditions away from the person. This includes people with chronic heart,
lung or kidney conditions, and diabetes. Wash your hands often and thoroughly with soap
and water for at least 20 seconds. You can use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and
water are not available. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
Avoid sharing household items such as dishes, drinking glasses, cups, eating utensils, towels,
bedding, or other items with a person who is being monitored for COVID-19. After the
person uses these items, you should wash them thoroughly (see below “Wash laundry
thoroughly”).
Clean all “high-touch” surfaces, such as counters, tabletops, doorknobs, bathroom fixtures,
toilets, phones, keyboards, tablets, and bedside tables every day.

Read labels of cleaning products and follow recommendations provided on product
labels. Labels contain instructions for safe and effective use of the cleaning products
including precautions you should take when applying the product.
You may also use a diluted bleach solution or a household disinfectant with a label that
says “EPA-approved.” To make a bleach solution at home, add 1 tablespoon of bleach
to 1 quart (4 cups) of water. For a larger supply, add ¼ cup of bleach to 1 gallon (16
cups) of water. Use a freshly made bleach solution each day, if commercial products are
unavailable.
Wash laundry thoroughly.
Immediately remove and wash clothes or bedding that have blood, body fluids and/or
secretions or excretions on them.
Wear disposable gloves while handling soiled items and wash your hands
immediately after removing your gloves.
Read and follow directions on labels of laundry or clothing items and detergent.
In general, wash and dry with the warmest temperatures recommended on the
clothing label.
Monitor the person’s symptoms. If they develop a fever, respiratory symptoms or shortness of
breath, call their healthcare provider and tell them that the person is being monitored for
COVID-19. This will help the healthcare provider’s office take steps to limit potential exposure.
Ask the healthcare provider to call the local or state health department.
Discuss any additional questions with your state or local health department.

If you have developed a fever or respiratory symptoms and believe you have had exposure to a known case or traveled to an area with community spread, isolate yourself from others in your home and contact your healthcare provider or local health department to describe your symptoms and any recent travel before you go to the healthcare facility.Social distancing is key to keeping Kentuckians safe. It is essential that Kentuckians participate in the following social distancing activities:

It is advised that all community gatherings be cancelled
All 172 school districts, the Kentucky School for the Blind and Kentucky School for the Deaf will close
Avoid all non-essential travel. Do not fly. Do not participate in cruise travel.
Recommend the temporary closure of senior centers to help halt the spread of the virus for those most vulnerable
All state prisons are closed to visitors
Recommend businesses to utilize telecommuting and allow employees to work from home if possible
State boards and commissions have canceled any scheduled in-person meetings and instead will use video teleconference technology
Hospitals are asked to cease elective procedures
This guidance will continue to change as circumstances warrant.

Uncertainty leads to anxiety. Follow these tips to maintain your mental health and reduce anxiety. Please seek professional help if needed. For more information, visit the CDC guidance for managing anxiety and stress.During the COVID-19 State of Emergency, individuals should complete the COVID-19 Medicaid PE Application, to request Presumptive Eligibility under the Kentucky Medicaid program. Presumptive Eligibility is temporary and ends on 6/30/2020 unless you submit an application for regular Medicaid. For a listing of participating medical providers for Presumptive Eligibility please access the Kentucky Medicaid Provider Directory. If you have questions or need more information about a participating Medicaid provider, you can call 1-800-635-2570.

Individuals may apply for Medicaid by calling the Kentucky Healthcare Customer Service line toll-free at (855) 459-6328, contacting an application assister through the Kentucky Health Benefit Exchange website, visiting the Benefind website or by calling the DCBS Call Center toll free at (855) 306-8959.

Individuals may apply for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as food stamps, by visiting the Benefind website or by calling the DCBS Call Center toll free at (855) 306-8959.

To see if you might be eligible for WIC, visit: WIC Screening Tool. If you think you might be eligible, contact your local health department for more information on enrolling. 																		If you have developed a fever or respiratory symptoms and believe you have had exposure to a known case or traveled to an area with community spread, isolate yourself from others in your home and contact your healthcare provider or local health department to describe your symptoms and any recent travel before you go to the healthcare facility.			For the latest information and prevention updates, visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 2019 novel coronavirus site 	Kentucky Department for Public Health recommends following the CDC Guidelines for preventing COVID-19 spread in communities.										Kentucky Department for Public Health wants you to protect yourself and your family.					Kentucky Department for Public Health recognizes CDC recommendations for cleaning and disinfecting.											Social distancing is key to keeping Kentuckians safe.  It is essential that Kentuckians participate in the following social distancing activities:		All 172 school districts, the Kentucky School for the Blind and Kentucky School for the Deaf will close 	Avoid all non-essential travel.  Do not fly.  Do not participate in cruise travel.	Recommend the temporary closure of senior centers to help halt the spread of the virus for those most vulnerable 			State boards and commissions have canceled any scheduled in-person meetings and instead will use video teleconference technology 				Uncertainty leads to anxiety.  Follow these tips to maintain your mental health and reduce anxiety.  Please seek professional help if needed.  For more information, visit the CDC guidance for managing anxiety and stress.					During the COVID-19 State of Emergency, individuals should complete the COVID-19 Medicaid PE Application, to request Presumptive Eligibility under the Kentucky Medicaid program.  Presumptive Eligibility is temporary and ends on 6/30/2020 unless you submit an application for regular Medicaid.  For a listing of participating medical providers for Presumptive Eligibility please access the Kentucky Medicaid Provider Directory.  If you have questions or need more information about a participating Medicaid provider, you can call 1-800-635-2570.	How to file an unemployment insurance claim if you have lost a job or are sick due to COVID-19 	Individuals may apply for Medicaid by calling the Kentucky Healthcare Customer Service line toll-free at (855) 459-6328, contacting an application assister through the Kentucky Health Benefit Exchange website, visiting the Benefind website or by calling the DCBS Call Center toll free at (855) 306-8959.		Individuals may apply for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as food stamps, by visiting the Benefind website or by calling the DCBS Call Center toll free at (855) 306-8959.	To see if you might be eligible for WIC, visit: WIC Screening Tool.  If you think you might be eligible, contact your local health department for more information on enrolling.		The COVID-19 response in Kentucky involves stakeholders at every level of the healthcare system.  The following documents and links reflect the most current guidance for healthcare providers, laboratories and local public health.																		SAMHSA OTP Guidance: SAMHSA issued guidance allowing states with and without emergency declarations to allow Opioid Treatment Programs (OTPs) to provide 28 days of take-home medication to stable patients and 15 days of medication to less stable patients whom the OTP believes can responsibly manage this amount of medication.	SAMHSA 42 CFR Part 2 Guidance: SAMHSA issued guidance which allows providers to share patient SUD diagnosis information that would normally be protected under 42 CFR Part 2 in instances of a bona fide medical emergency.  Usage of the medical emergency exception must be documented by providers.	CMS Guidance to Catastrophic Coverage Plans: CMS issued an FAQ clarifying that catastrophic coverage plans must include coverage of COVID-19 diagnosis and treatment under the Essential Health Benefits.  CMS will waive enforcement actions against any such plan which provides COVID-19 services before patients pay the plan's deductible, and encourages plans and states to provide such pre-deductible coverage.										Interim U.S Guidance for Risk Assessment and Public Health Management of Healthcare Personnel with Potential Exposure in a Healthcare Setting to Patients with COVID-19 	Interim Guidance for Implementing Home Care of People Not Requiring Hospitalization for 2019 Novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV) 																			Report observations of non-compliance with the restrictions on workplace and public gathering.		If anyone has information regarding possible price gouging, contact the Office of the Attorney General Consumer Protection hotline at 888-432-9257 or fill out the complaint form online.